Alysande Stuart and her brother Alistaire are the founding members of the Weird Happenings Organization in the Marvel Universe. The character, created by Chris Claremont and Alan Davis, first appeared in Excalibur #6 in March 1989.

Within the context of the stories, Alysande is part of a British Government organization which investigates supernatural and superhuman incidents.
W.H.O (Weird Happenings Organization)Brigadier Alysande Stuart and her twin brother. professor Alistaire Stuart, were the founders of the Weird Happenings Organization (W.H.O.), a group created to replace the Resources Control Executive (R.C.X.) as Britain's primary organization for the investigation of supernatural and superhuman incidents. W.H.O. wasn't the only government organization concerned with the paranormal though, as the R.C.X. remained in a different form and the F.I.6. was another similar organization. W.H.O. successfully combined military (through Alysande) and scientific (through Alistaire) methods.
Excalibur & Muir IslandSent to investigate the disappearance of a train and the reappearance of a similar train from an alternate dimension (Earth-597), W.H.O. met Excalibur, Britain's primary superhero team. Excalibur and Alistaire himself vanished for some time as the train and team were drawn across many alternate realities. The group met more than one alternate version of Alysande. One of these versions, where she held her brother's job, was rescued by Nightcrawler from danger, during which he confessed an attraction to 'his' version of Alysdane. After the team was recovered safely, the Stuarts and Excalibur became close friends and W.H.O. would often call in Excalibur's aid.

Alysande also assisted in the defense of Muir Island against the Reavers as part of a group who were unofficially known as the Muir Island X-Men.

Alysande had the trust of the Queen of England herself. She was asked to be part of a semi-private walk through the gardens of Holyrood Palace in Scotland. Part of Stuart's task was to ensure privacy.

During the Air-Walker incident, the leader of S.H.I.E.L.D., Nick Fury offered Alysande limited use of the Helicarrier's surveillance equipment. She had known Nick Fury when she was a junior officer attached to S.H.I.E.L.D. as a N.A.T.O. liaison. Fury allowed her use of the Helicarrier's surveillance systems seeing as how it was already in British airspace on other business (concerning the hero Motormouth).

The systems were used by W.H.O. to successfully hunt for Cayre and his creations. Alysande was accused of paying off S.H.I.E.L.D. with classified secrets.

Death & the R.C.X.An investigation was called, but Alysande died during Excalibur's Braddock Manor housewarming party, murdered by Jamie Braddock. At her funeral, Nick Fury told Alistaire that Alysande had been framed and her name was to be cleared. Alistaire later found out that the R.C.X. had been responsible for framing Alysande, hoping to weaken W.H.O. and increase their own power. The R.C.X. organization was neutralized by Alistaire, Excalibur, an internal mutiny and several old friends of Brian Braddock himself.