Domino (Neena Thurman) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. She is best known as a member of the X-Men offshoot X-Force. Created by writer Fabian Nicieza and artist/co-writer Rob Liefeld, she first fully appeared in X-Force, vol. 1 #11 (June 1992).

In addition to her exceptional marksmanship and hand-to-hand skills, Domino possesses mutant probability-altering powers, similar to those of the X-Man Longshot. She often uses her skills as a mercenary, but has also been the partner, confidante, and lover of the superhero Cable, a lieutenant in his militant group X-Force, and a member of the X-Men.
The woman who would become known as Domino is actually the result of a top-secret government breeding program intended to develop the perfect weapon. Domino was the only test subject to survive, but her "luck" power was deemed a failure at meeting the project's goals. Her biological mother broke her out of the project and left her with Father Rudolpho Boschelli in the Church of the Sacred Heart in Chicago. Domino eventually left the Church and became a mercenary. One of her first jobs was to stop "Operation: Jericho," which was a remote-controlled warbot project. Domino wrecked the robot, but in the process fried the mind of the soldier controlling it. She was then assigned to guard the genius Dr. Milo Thurman, whose analytical ability made him too dangerous for the government to let roam free. Somehow, Domino and Thurman fell in love and were married, apparently officially. Thurman had a thing for Dante's Inferno and called Domino "Beatrice." The two separated after a raid on the facility by AIM members, with Milo believing Domino had been killed during the altercation. 

Six Pack[edit 
She then began work as a mercenary and helped found the mercenary band the Six Pack, which introduced her to the mutant time traveler Cable. Domino worked with the Six Pack for some time, taking on many missions for the pure cash value. The Six Pack was very brutal in their adventures, often shooting down entire crowds of people who got in their way. The team, also known as the Wild Pack, went on missions in Iran,  and participated in a raid on a HYDRA base,  which Domino participated in. During her time with the Wild Pack, she had her first confrontations with Stryfe, Cable's evil clone, in Afghanistan and Uruguay. 

Replacement[edit 
When Cable became the leader of the New Mutants following their break from the X-Men, "Domino" (actually Copycat)   joined him as his field leader, and stayed with the team as they changed from the New Mutants to X-Force. When it was revealed that the real Domino was actually a prisoner of the supervillain Tolliver for over a year,   X-Force rejected the Domino imposter and, with Cable's reassurances, planned to rescue the real Domino and welcome her onto the team.

Meanwhile, the real Domino learned of Tolliver's destruction of X-Force's Adirondack base, and planned her escape.   Cable found her at Tolliver's Italian home, along with her apparently murdered double.   Domino was accidentally freed by Deadpool, whom she shot. Cable sent her to find X-Force. She escaped on Tolliver's helicopter, and survived a fall from Tolliver's helicopter into the sea.   She found X-Force and joined the team.

Joining X-Force[edit 
Domino stayed with the team for most of its existence, becoming its de facto leader when Cable left the team on several occasions. For a while, she was a prisoner of the forces of Bastion, which severely affected her mentally and physically. During X-Force's existence, Domino had several solo adventures. During one, she was forced to kill her mentally ill, ex Six Pack partner Grizzly.  

X-Corporation[edit 

This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2010)
When X-Force briefly disbanded, Domino joined the X-Corporation.[volume & issue needed  While working in their Hong Kong branch, Domino's partner, Risque, was murdered and she summoned the core group of the X-Men to help investigate. Together the mutants uncovered the truth behind John Sublime's "Third Species" movement: he was harvesting body parts from living mutants to create his U-Men. They also helped free the mutant named Xorn.  

During her solo period, Domino began to search for her mother, Beatrice, and clues to her past. In her search Domino learned that the Project: Armageddon, was still active. Led to a secret base in Florida Domino finds a mutant boy named Lazarus who had the same eye tattoo imprisoned there for observation.[volume & issue needed  Lazarus turns out to be her half-brother with powerful emotion controlling abilities and the true result of the Perfect Weapon program.[volume & issue needed  Soon after attempting to liberate him, however, the Armajesuits, a fanatical group of quasi-priests who were against the project, arrive to kill Lazarus and prevent him from reaching his full development. Domino discovers that her mother leads the Armajesuits and is forced to shoot her to save Lazarus's life. She takes Lazarus to Father Boschelli and the Church she was raised in for sanctuary, although unbeknown to her, Beatrice subsequently abducts Lazarus from there.  

Cable and Deadpool[edit 
Later, she was employed by S.H.I.E.L.D. as a member of the new Six Pack. Alongside G. W. Bridge, Hammer, Solo, Anaconda and Constrictor, she attacked Cable at his community Providence, though she quickly defected to his side after the Six Pack was defeated by Cable and Deadpool. Domino followed Deadpool to Rumekistan, where she assassinated the country's dictator, Flag-Smasher, only to find out it was part of a plan to install Cable as leader of that nation. After a conversation with Citizen V, she then attempted to kill Cable, believing that he would lead them to ruin.[volume & issue needed 

Civil War[edit 
During the Civil War, Domino, Shatterstar and Caliban, under the X-Force name, lead an attack on the Xavier Institute and break out more than half of the 198, bringing the tension between the 198 and O*N*E to a head.   After her other team, the Six Pack, disbands, she and Cable are allies on Providence, until a fight with Hecatomb causes the island to sink into the ocean, leaving Cable presumed dead.[volume & issue needed 

Domino is later recruited by her G. W. Bridge along with Silver Sable and the Contessa Valentina Allegra de Fontaine to track down the Punisher. When a fake Punisher started targeting civilians, she was the only team member to believe in Castle's innocence.[volume & issue needed 

X-Force[edit 
After the Punisher stint, Domino finds Wolverine and X-Force in Tokyo and joins them in trying to capture Vanisher. 0  Questions to Domino's authenticity have been raised when her luck powers fail her several times.[volume & issue needed 

On behalf of Wolverine, Domino is asked to stop in a cemetery to deliver flowers to a deceased loved one. She encounters Spiral, Chimera and Lady Deathstrike who have dug up Revanche's body. After a brief fight she wounds Chimera and the women escape with the body,   but Domino manages to replace Jean Grey's body before the Red Queen could take it as her host. 2 

Domino and Wolverine go on a mission to resolve a situation from Domino's past.  

Domino is the first person to learn Red Hulk's identity and is marked for death by him. Doc Samson provides Red Hulk with a list of people (Deadpool, the Punisher, Thundra and Elektra) to kill her. When the group arrives, they find her in a bar with the members of X-Force.   Afterwards, she reveals it was her husband who named her Domino.  

X-Men (Vol 3)[edit 
Domino appears post Regenesis, as a regular member of Storm's security team, tasked with the responsibility of safe guarding Utopia from all foreign threats.[volume & issue needed . She fights with them during the war against the Avengers.[volume & issue needed 

Back with X-Force[edit 
After the events of Avengers vs. X-Men, Domino left Utopia like all the mutants who lived there.[volume & issue needed  She later joins Cable's new X-Force group.
Domino is a mutant with the ability to subconsciously and psionically initiate random telekinetic acts that affect probability in her favor by making improbable (but not impossible) things to occur within her line of sight, thus causing her to have "good luck" and her opponents to have "bad luck." This "probability field" phenomenon can be anything from an enemy's equipment failure to hitting just the right switch with a stray shot to shut down an overloading nuclear reactor. The full extent of her powers is still unknown.

This subconsciously controlled talent is triggered when she is in a stressful situation (such as fighting or escaping). This effect constantly emanates from her body at all times and is completely subconscious. However, it is also largely participatory-in order for the luck to take effect, Domino herself must engage in an action whose chance she can affect.

For example, if debris falling from the sky was about to hit her in the head, she would still be hurt if she stood still. However, if she tried to avoid it, she would move perfectly to avoid each and every piece about to hit her. In addition, if Domino were to stand before a hail of bullets she would be a bullet-riddled corpse. Instead, she must take action, attempting to avoid the gunfire, and would miraculously bob-and-weave just perfectly to avoid every single shot.

As a byproduct of her abilities, Domino's cerebral cortex emits a current of bioelectric pulses down her spine to instinctively guide her movements during such situations, which has the added effect of augmenting her natural reflexes and reactions to superhuman levels.

During the 198 rebellion at the Xavier Institute, Domino was able to consciously utilize her abilities in order to affect the probability fields of storm clouds above a group of ONE Sentinels, calling down lightning to strike them.

Domino is also a superb markswoman with various firearms, highly skilled athlete, excellent swimmer, and adept in use of explosives. She has extensive training in various armed combat techniques and the martial arts, with Olympic-gold level athletic and acrobatic ability. She also seems to be fluent in multiple languages.

Domino wears body armor of unknown composition, and carries conventional firearms. She has also used a staff that fires unspecified ammunition, which can be used for balance when jumping and is equipped with sensors. During her time as an X-Corporation operative, Domino wore contact lenses designed by Forge, capable of night vision or, with a triple blink, firing a high intensity laser beam.