 
E.V.A. (Earth-616) 0001
E.V.A. was grown in the body of the man known as Fantomex. She was a physical manifestation of his nervous system and hadn't gained sentience. At this time, resembled a sentient techno-organic ship with insect-like legs for landing. E.V.A. could fly and generate electrical charges as a weapon. 
X-Force
E.V.A. helped X-Force whilst Fantomex was a member.  When he was killed by Skinless Man, she saved Psylocke and then mutated into a humanoid form.  After Fantomex was resurrected, he was separated into three distinct bodies for each of his three brains. E.V.A. retained the ability to assume her humanoid form as well as her spaceship form for a time. 

The full effect of Fantomex's separation on E.V.A. wasn't clear. She initially sided with Fantomex and Cluster against Weapon XIII. 

Cable's X-Force
When Fantomex lost track of Cluster and became part of Cable's X-Force team, E.V.A. came with him.  However, the instability that affected Fantomex after his tri-separation apparently affected E.V.A. as well. When Fantomex's hardwired self-confidence was contradicted by the mistakes he made in reality, he began to suffer a mental breakdown. E.V.A. helped "fix" him by suggesting he murder everyone who appeared "better" than him, so that by default he would be "the best" again.
Along with Fantomex, E.V.A. joined Wolverine and Archangel's Uncanny X-Force. She serves as the teams main transport.

Final Execution

When Fantomex is killed by the Skinless Man, in his last moments he manages to get Psylocke aboard E.V.A. who flies her towards Gateway. As E.V.A.'s connection to Fantomex is severed she warns Betsy she is about to crash. Betsy jumps to safety as E.V.A. emerges from the wreckage in her new humanoid form while retaining her consciousness. E.V.A. and Betsy teleport back to Cavern-X and inform Logan of Fantomex's death. Daken interrupts over the communicator and takes control over Ultimaton who snaps Gateway's neck and begins to detonate. Psylocke uses Gateway's last bit of life to randomly teleport the team to safety. They arrive 30 years into the future where X-Force has eliminated murder by killing people before they act.

E.V.A. then flew Nightcrawler to the hideout of the new Brotherhood while keeping Mystique confined. She seemed distressed at Mystique playing on Nightcrawler's admiration for the Mystique of his home dimension, warning him that this Mystique was a different woman and was not to be trusted.

Despite E.V.A.'s warnings, Nightcrawler somehow managed to escape her and took up Mystique's offer of revenge. After his brutal execution of Blob, he was confronted by an angry E.V.A. who berated him for endangering their entire world for the sake of his vengeance, going as far as to stab him through the chest. She claims that she cannot understand his motives before he teleports away hoping that she will someday be able to forgive him.

E.V.A then manages to fly the remaining members of X-Force and Evan away from the Brotherhoods crumbling base.
Powers and Abilities

E.V.A. has a powerset very similar to the mechanical X-Man, Danger. She is capable of reshaping her body into different weapons and shapes, displaying a spike which she uses to impale targets and a flight form capable of shuttling several passengers. It is believed that she still possesses a telepathic connection to Fantomex.