Mimic (Calvin Montgomery Rankin) is a fictional character appearing in comic books published by Marvel Comics. He was briefly a member of the X-Men in the 1960s, and was the first character to be added to the team after the original line-up and the first X-Man who was not a mutant.

An alternate reality version of Mimic became a popular member of the Exiles, the reality-hopping team.
Created by writer Stan Lee and artist Werner Roth, he first appeared in X-Men vol. 1 #19 (April 1966) as a villain.
Calvin Rankin was born in Passaic, New Jersey. After an accidental mixup of chemicals from his father Ronald's experiments, he gained the ability to temporarily copy the skills, physical traits, knowledge, and superpowers of any person within close range (approximately ten feet), which led people to fear him. When his father found out about this, he retreated with Calvin into a mine where he worked on a machine which, as he claimed, would make the abilities his son absorbed permanent. However, his experiments with the device caused several power outages in the vicinity; in order to hold off the mob which was tracking these disturbances, Ronald Rankin blasted the mine entrance, but he was accidentally caught and killed in the explosion, and his device sealed deep inside the mine.

With the X-Men[edit 
Taking the name Mimic, Cal decided to seek out the X-Men in a plot to get to the machine and make their powers his permanently, after realizing Beast and Iceman were members once he absorbed their powers. Mimic went to the Mansion by tracking Marvel Girl, realizing who she was after gaining telekinetic power. He battled the X-Men, escaped them, but took Marvel Girl hostage. He drove her to a cave, knowing the rest would follow. He tied her hands and left her while he used the optic power of Cyclops to break through the rubble to the machine. The other members freed Marvel Girl and battled Mimic. Initially he gained the upper hand and activated the machine after using Professor X's power to understand how the machine worked, but his powers were removed by Ronald Rankin's device, as Professor X had expected. Xavier then wiped his memory and let him go. 

It was while attending the same college as Jean Grey that his memory returned. In another attempt to gain the X-Men's abilities, Mimic set his sights on joining their ranks, becoming deputy leader in the process when he blackmailed his way into joining the X-Men.  As a member of the team, he soon began to antagonize the other X-Men with his arrogant behavior and ended up expelled after a fight with Cyclops.  He later realized his potential when he saved his team-mates from the Super-Adaptoid, defeating the android by tricking it into trying to copy his artificial powers. This battle robbed him of his abilities, and he is left powerless but a better person. 

After the X-Men[edit 
Eventually he regained his powers, but they were enhanced to also absorb people's life forces, killing them. As the Beast tried to work out a solution, Calvin seemingly perished in a self-sacrificial fight against the Hulk after absorbing the Hulk's gamma radiation.  For a long time the X-Men believed him to be dead. In actuality, Mimic was in a coma which lasted for years. This ended only when the regenerative mutant Wolverine came near him. Mimic's power copied Wolverine's healing ability and he woke up.[volume & issue needed 

Mimic's powers soon began to drain the life energy of those around him again.[volume & issue needed  He fled to a remote Siberian village, where he soon encountered X-Force, who were investigating a distress call. X-Force arrived to find a number of dead scientists and an enraged Mimic, who illogically blamed X-Force for their deaths. During the fight, Mimic copied the power of Sunspot, and their identical charge caused a large explosion, after which Mimic was nowhere to be found. 

Mimic was later recruited by the entity Onslaught and his powers stabilized.[volume & issue needed  Along with the Blob he confronted X-Force member Warpath, but with the assistance of Risque, Warpath was able to subdue them.  Soon after, Onslaught himself was defeated and Operation: Zero Tolerance imprisoned Mimic.[volume & issue needed  Later, Excalibur tracked his telepathic signature and thinking that he was Professor Xavier, freed him. He was injured in this encounter and came to Muir Island to recover. 

Excalibur[edit 
Mimic became friends with Excalibur. He helps confront the threat of the misguided Feron, who confronted the team with the Crazy Gang and the Technet. Mimic attends Captain Britain's wedding. 

Mimic later joined Mystique's Brotherhood of Mutants and assisted in freeing the real Xavier.[volume & issue needed  That group eventually disbanded,[volume & issue needed  and Mimic was not among later groupings.[volume & issue needed 

Dark X-Men[edit 
During the Dark Reign storyline, Mimic became a member of Norman Osborn's Dark X-Men team featured in Matt Fraction's Uncanny X-Men stint  where it was revealed that his unstable behavior was caused by his previously undiagnosed bipolar disorder which is now being treated with medication.  

After Emma Frost and Namor defect to the X-Men taking Cloak and Dagger with them, Rankin continues as a member of the Dark X-Men alongside former Brotherhood member Mystique, Weapon Omega, and Dark Beast as they try to capture Nate Grey during Osborn's reign. Green Goblin forces Mimic to mimic the powers of Weapon Omega and forces the two of them to siphon Nate Grey. They succeeded in neutralizing Nate Grey's powers at least temporarily.  

Wolverine's X-Men[edit 
After Norman Osborn was taken down by the Avengers following the Siege of Asgard, Mimic and Weapon Omega left H.A.M.M.E.R. where Weapon Omega's powers started acting up. Mimic went to Hank McCoy for help as he had been the only person who had always aided him when he needed help. Mimic took Weapon Omega to the Xavier Institute where Beast found out that Weapon Omega was about to explode. The X-Men tried various ways to prevent the explosion. But in the end, the only way left outside of death was an induced artificial coma. Weapon Omega asked his only friend to do it and Mimic complied. Borrowing powers from Rachel Grey, Mimic put Weapon Omega to sleep promising to stay by his side until he wakes up. After the ordeal, he asked Rogue if he could stay at the school in which she agrees noting that she thinks he is going to be a wonderful teacher.  

Following the Avengers vs. X-Men storyline, Mimic and Rogue were the only ones to respond to a prison riot at an unnamed prison. Although they were overpowered by the villains Griffin, Icemaster, Lightmaster, Quicksand, Ruby Thursday, Schizoid Man, Silk Fever, and Supercharger, Rogue and Mimic were able to stop the riot by copying the powers of Armadillo, Equinox, and Man-Bull.  

Powers and abilities[edit 
Mimic is able to copy the knowledge, skills, and powers (if any) of every individual within a certain range of him; different sources list this as anywhere from several feet to a mile radius.[volume & issue needed  In his first appearances, he needed to get within about 5 feet to initially copy someone's powers,[volume & issue needed  but once he copied them he would retain the abilities so long as he was within several miles of them, even if he left that radius and then returned later.[volume & issue needed  This was established shortly after he joined the X-Men,[volume & issue needed  when Professor X had him fly in increasing circles using Angel's wings and he flew beyond his copy range and the wings started to vanish, but they returned immediately when he turned back,[volume & issue needed  but this has been retconned and changed several times.[citation needed  This applies to both superpowered and "normal" abilities, as shown when he duplicated Kitty Pryde's ninja training.   He has shown the capacity to manifest numerous powers at the same time, and since he also absorbs knowledge, he can immediately use copied powers with the same skill level as the original owner. However, he occasionally shows difficulty in juggling multiple powers, and his body can be overloaded by absorbing too many at once. Usually the Mimic loses his duplicated abilities once out of range of the owner, but due to the length of time spent with them, his body permanently retains the powers of the original five X-Men: Angel, The Beast, Cyclops, Iceman and Marvel Girl (the High Evolutionary's temporary elimination of the mutant gene once erased these powers from the Mimic's genetic template,[volume & issue needed  but they appear to have returned since[volume & issue needed ). Thus, he has the powers of flight (granted by angelic wings) of Angel, the increased strength and agility of Beast (complete with enlarged hands and feet), the optic blasts of Cyclops (because he lacks Cyclops' brain damage, Mimic is able to control them), the temperature manipulation of Iceman, and the telekinesis of Jean Grey. He partly retains Professor X's telepathic powers, which once caused his telepathic signature to be mistaken for that of Charles Xavier,   although he was not shown to be located during more recent searches for Xavier. He may also retain Wolverine's recuperative abilities. Among the characters his powers have temporarily copied are Banshee, Marrow, Gambit, Rogue, Storm, Colossus, Nightcrawler, Shadowcat, Feron, Meggan, Kylun, Micromax, Marvel Girl (Rachel Summers), Wolfsbane, Pete Wisdom, Psylocke, Risque, Siryn, Warpath, Sunspot, Cable, Caliban, Domino, Boom-Boom, Rictor, Cannonball, Shatterstar, Post, Blob, Mystique, Toad, members of the Crazy Gang, Weapon Omega, and numerous others.[citation needed 

The original Mimic as created by Stan Lee and Werner Roth was not a mutant, but received his powers after breathing in some gas during an explosion in his father's laboratory. Later X-Men writer Scott Lobdell claimed it merely awakened and enhanced Mimic's latent mutant powers, but this point is never made in the comics themselves and remains a point of discussion.