Sabretooth (Victor Creed) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, most commonly in association with the X-Men. Created by writer Chris Claremont and artist/co-writer John Byrne, the character first appeared in Iron Fist #14 (August 1977). Sabretooth was originally portrayed as a non-powered serial killer but was later written as a mutant possessing bestial superhuman abilities, most notably a rapid healing factor, razor-sharp fangs and claws, and superhuman senses. He is a vicious assassin responsible for numerous deaths both as a paid mercenary and for his personal pleasure.

Sabretooth's long-time enemy is the mutant and X-Men member Wolverine, with conflicting accounts as to the origin of their feud. It is known that Wolverine and Sabretooth were victims of the Cold War supersoldier program Weapon X, and that Sabretooth saw Wolverine as competition and therefore antagonized him. While Wolverine is depicted as suppressing his more savage qualities, Sabretooth does the opposite and embraces them.

The character has appeared in several X-Men animated series and video games. Played by Tyler Mane, Sabretooth was a henchman of Magneto in the first X-Men film and X-Men: The Official Game. Liev Schreiber plays him in the 2009 film X-Men Origins: Wolverine. In May 2008, Wizard magazine ranked Sabretooth #193 of the 200 best comic book characters of all time.  In 2009, Sabretooth was also ranked as IGN's 44th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.
Sabretooth's name, or what is believed to be his real name, is Victor Creed.   Sabretooth's memories have been tampered with by clandestine organizations such as Weapon X and so much of what appears to be his past is not of credible account.[volume & issue needed  The clearest accounts of Victor's childhood begin with him murdering his brother Luther over a piece of pie.   His father then chains him in the basement like an animal and systematically pulls out Victor's elongated canines, which perennially grow back. Victor begs his mother to let him go, but she does not.   Years pass until Victor eventually gnaws off his own hand in order to escape the basement and apparently murders his parents.   It is, however, later revealed that Sabretooth only killed his father, and took care of his mother financially, visiting her frequently until her death.  

Victor is revealed to have had a brother, Saul, and sister, Clara, who are believed to be the reason for Victor's ongoing feud with the X-Men's Wolverine. Saul Creed was a tracker and hunter, while Clara was an animal handler. They helped track down a feral James "Logan" Howlett, the future Wolverine, for a circus.   They also helped Logan escape after he was experimented on by Nathaniel Essex, and the three go on the run.   Saul perceives Logan to be stealing Clara from him, leading to him tipping Essex off to Logan's location. In the ensuing chaos, Logan accidentally kills Clara, although her healing factor later revives her. Saul Creed, not knowing this, blames Essex for her death, and the two men seek Essex out, Saul Creed revealing that Clara was his sister.   Logan however finds out that Saul Creed betrayed them to Essex, and drowns Saul Creed in a potion of Essex's. Horrified by this Clara asks Wolverine to never look for her again. Victor Creed was then informed about his brother's death.  

In an early tale, Logan lives in a small community of Blackfoot Indians and settlers. One day, Sabretooth tracks him down in Canada, and seemingly murders his one-time teammate's lover, Silver Fox, on Logan's birthday, after Silver Fox rejects him. In this tale it is indicated that Logan did not have particularly strong feelings for Silver Fox, and that her murder was simply the last straw in a series of grievances he held against Sabretooth. 0  Creed eventually adopts a tradition of tracking Logan down on his birthday with the intention of fighting him.  

Early history[edit 
Creed is recruited into a top secret CIA covert ops unit known as Team X, with allies John Wraith (Kestrel), Logan (Wolverine), Silver Fox (whose death was a hoax), and David North (Maverick). On one mission, the psychopathic Sabretooth kills a crucial scientist during a battle against Russian supersoldier Omega Red, causing Team X to break up.   During this period he fathers a son, Graydon Creed, with the mutant shapeshifter Mystique, who is undercover in the guise of a spy named Leni Zauber. Graydon grows up to found Friends of Humanity, an anti-mutant organization, and while running for President is assassinated by Mystique from an alternate future.  

After the disbanding of Team X, Logan and Victor meet up again, as friends, when Logan learns of anti-mutant forces within the government. Victor and Logan form a team of rebel mutants, and Victor falls in love with a mutant named Holo. Eventually, Creed grows tired of the fighting and wants to leave with Holo, but she has already decided against it. In the final conflict, Holo is mortally wounded. Creed blames Logan for her death. 2 

Next, Sabretooth is recruited by the Weapon X program, but it is unknown what, if any, enhancements he receives. As part of the program, his memories are tampered with by the psychic mutant Aldo Ferro, also known as Psi-borg.  

In 1968, Creed, using the alias Sabretooth, works as a mercenary assassin in Saigon. An individual called the "White Devil," involved in the disappearance of soldiers and locals, contacts Sabretooth and offers to employ him as one of his own enforcers. Sabretooth accepts.  

Supervillain[edit 

This section may contain an excessive amount of intricate detail that may only interest a specific audience. Please help relocate any relevant information, and remove excessive detail that may be against Wikipedia's inclusion policy. (December 2014)
Emerging as a costumed villain, Sabretooth becomes partners with the Constrictor and the two act as enforcers for major criminal interests. Sabretooth battles Iron Fist and is badly beaten.   Sabretooth and the Constrictor then fight Iron Fist, Luke Cage, Misty Knight, and Colleen Wing only to be defeated again.  With the Constrictor, Creed begins to stalk and kill human beings for pleasure, which earns him the newspaper title of "The Slasher"; he also attacks Misty Knight again.   With the Constrictor, he attacks Harmony Young, but they are defeated by Luke Cage.  The Constrictor and Sabretooth dissolve their partnership, and Sabretooth nearly kills the Constrictor at one time.[volume & issue needed 


Sabretooth battling Spider-Man on the cover of The Spectacular Spider-Man #116.
Art by Rich Buckler.
Sabretooth is next reunited with his employer, the Foreigner, who claims to have trained the mercenary at some point. He attacks the Black Cat, nearly biting through her leg until he encounters a crowbar hidden underneath her boot. He is defeated by Spider-Man, and outmaneuvered and humiliated by the Black Cat in combat.  

Sabretooth eventually encounters a thief by the name of Gambit, and the two fight, but find they aren't exactly enemies.   Later, while recruiting for mastermind villain Mister Sinister, Gambit gathers a group of mutant criminals he has associated with who form the Marauders.   Sinister clones several of the Marauders so that he has a loyal group of lackeys after the originals die.[volume & issue needed 

The Marauders are directed to massacre the Morlocks, which sets Sabretooth in another battle against Wolverine. 0  Sabretooth and the Marauders join in an attack on Polaris, and battle Wolverine again during the Marauders' attempt to kill Madelyne Pryor. Wolverine stabs Sabretooth through the heart and uses Scrambler's power to disable his healing factor, killing him.   He is replaced by a clone by the time the X-Men attack the Marauders' headquarters. With the X-Men slaughtering his teammates, Sabretooth flees 2  and is reunited with Mr. Sinister at the X-Mansion.   The X-Men and X-Factor attack them there, and kill both Sabretooth and Sinister.   However, Sabretooth manages to keep his tradition of stalking Wolverine on his birthday that year. 0 

Sabretooth returns to the sewers to slaughter leftover Morlocks. He kills Chickenwings, hunts Mole, and then battles Archangel.   Caliban, a surviving Morlock, hunts Sabretooth down. Sabretooth proves no match for Caliban, who breaks his back and leaves him for dead.   It takes weeks for his healing factor to repair his spine, during which he sustains himself on sewer water and passing vermin. He recovers just in time to confront Wolverine, who stumbled upon him while lost in the sewers.   He attacks Wolverine again in Times Square, but their conflict is cut short by a vigilante who shoots them both with hallucinogen-laced bullets which trigger memories of their time as partners in the CIA.  

Sabretooth then allies with Fenris and Matsu'o Tsurayaba against the X-Men and Maverick.   While attending a wrestling match, Sabretooth is attacked by the Weapon X robot Shiva. He is rescued by John Wraith, who convinces him to team up with the rest of Team X - Wolverine, Maverick, Silver Fox, and John Wraith - to discover why their anti-aging factors are suddenly failing. Their quest leads them to the telepath Aldo Ferro, the Psi-Borg. Ferro overwhelms them all with psychic illusions, concluding with a toothed tree which apparently consumes Creed. 0 

Suffering from severe bloodlust, Sabretooth hires telepathic mutant Birdy to help him keep his urges in check by providing what he calls "the glow," a psychic blast that satiates his bloodlust and numbs the pain of his suppressed memories as a youth, allowing himself control for short periods.[volume & issue needed 

Betrayal of the X-Men and brief alliance with X-Factor[edit 

This section may contain an excessive amount of intricate detail that may only interest a specific audience. Please help relocate any relevant information, and remove excessive detail that may be against Wikipedia's inclusion policy. (December 2014)
A short time later, Birdy is killed by Sabretooth's grown son Graydon, who now has a hatred for mutants, especially his father. Without "the glow," Sabretooth slips into a murderous killing spree. This culminates in a clash with Maverick, whom Sabretooth defeats. He escapes, claiming only Wolverine can do what needs to be done to the psychotic Creed. Afterward, Maverick approaches the X-Men in Japan, and an ancient telepath, comatose since the nuclear bomb that destroyed Hiroshima, who mind-links with Creed and the team discovers Creed's psychosis was rooted in his time as a CIA operative. On a mission, he slaughtered a target, his wife (a "frail" for Creed), and a little boy. The look in the boy's eyes has followed Creed ever since. Ultimately, Sabretooth attacks Charles Xavier, leader of the X-Men. As Xavier infiltrates Creed's mind, he discovers that every victim Sabretooth has killed is remembered by the villain. Xavier is confident this means Creed values human life, and there is hope for the mutant. Sabretooth is incarcerated, as a wanted murderer, in a holographic environment because Xavier does not want him to roam on the grounds. Sabretooth is angered, but grudgingly stays with the team. During his incarceration, he assists in battles against the X-Cutioner and the Phalanx. Caliban, free of Apocalypse's control, kidnaps the X-Man Jubilee in exchange for Sabretooth. When Sabretooth arrives, he mauls Caliban's face, and Caliban flees.[volume & issue needed  Wolverine, who had left the team after his adamantium was removed by Magneto, returns, and the villain escapes for a fight. This leads to Wolverine stabbing one of his claws into Sabretooth's brain.  

The newer, gentler Sabretooth is frequently nursed by X-Force member Boomer; he eventually reveals that he was feigning helplessness, and attacks Boomer. Psylocke saves the young mutant's life, and she uses her psionic knife to disable him. However, this no longer works because his brain injury from Wolverine freed him from the need for "the glow," furthermore rendering him resistant to telepathic detection and control. Retaliating, Sabretooth nearly kills Psylocke, but he is finally confronted by the X-Men, who incapacitate him. 2 

He is turned over to the custody of Dr. Valerie Cooper, who fits him with an explosive restraining collar and forces him to participate as a member of the government-sponsored X-Factor team.[volume & issue needed  Creed later admits he was a "sleeper" agent with the mission of executing X-Factor members the government could not control.[volume & issue needed  He eventually escapes,[volume & issue needed  and returns once more to mercenary work.[volume & issue needed  Under unknown circumstances he gains adamantium skeleton and claws.   Sabretooth is captured, along with Wolverine, by Apocalypse, who forces the two to fight each other for the right to become Apocalypse's new Horseman, Death. After Sabretooth's defeat, Apocalypse extracts the adamantium from him and bonds it to Wolverine, Wolverine having fought to win as he felt that he might resist the brainwashing and so be easier to defeat than Sabretooth, who might actually enjoy what he had become.  

Sabretooth then joins Mystique's new Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, calling itself the Brotherhood, where he participates in an assassination attempt against Senator Robert Kelly.[volume & issue needed 

Weapon X and the Brotherhood[edit 

This section may contain an excessive amount of intricate detail that may only interest a specific audience. Please help relocate any relevant information, and remove excessive detail that may be against Wikipedia's inclusion policy. (December 2014)
Later, he is forced to become a member of a relaunched Weapon X program, where his skeleton is infused with adamantium once more. In Wolverine vol. 2 #166, Sabretooth reveals that by means of genetic enhancement the Weapon X program has increased his strength and accelerated his healing factor. Eventually he escaped the program again and resumed working solo. However, he sometimes worked on a team, such as when he worked with several other villains to locate the Identity Disc, a record of heroes' secret identities. This ended up being a ruse.[volume & issue needed 

Later, in Canada, he encountered Sasquatch and the newest Wendigo. Sasquatch believes Creed may be responsible for some of the human deaths occurring there. Creed is seen setting traps and acting mysteriously. Sasquatch discovers Sabretooth is playing a twisted mind-game with the Wendigo before attempting to kill it. Sabretooth and the Wendigo fall into the Arctic Sea with Sabretooth biting the Wendigo's neck, and both are presumed dead by Sasquatch. After a fearsome battle in the arctic waters, Sabretooth emerged victorious with the hide of the Wendigo.[volume & issue needed 

Sabretooth would later attack the Xavier Institute, in a revamped Brotherhood consisting of leader Black Tom Cassidy, Mammomax, Avalanche, Exodus, and undercover heroes Nocturne and Juggernaut.[volume & issue needed  Wolverine claims to have killed Sabretooth, spreading him "all over the grass," although Black Tom's plant abilities probably contributed to Sabretooth's survival; he returns in X-Men: The 198 Files.[volume & issue needed 

Reluctant alliance with the X-Men[edit 

This section may contain an excessive amount of intricate detail that may only interest a specific audience. Please help relocate any relevant information, and remove excessive detail that may be against Wikipedia's inclusion policy. (December 2014)

Promotional art for X-Men vol. 2 #189 (September 2006).
Art by Chris Bachalo and Tim Townsend.
In X-Men vol. 2 #188 (August 2006), Sabretooth was spotted fleeing a mysterious group of superhumans collectively known as The Children. Their reasons for pursuing him remained unknown, but two of them-Sangre and Serafina-were tracking him. Sangre activated a singularity generator that annihilated most of the town and killed all its citizens, except for a little girl whom Serafina deliberately shielded from the destruction so there would be a witness to what had happened. He later encountered two more of the Children-Aguja and Fuego. They attacked him and temporarily neutralized his healing factor, but he managed to escape regardless, only to end up at the Xavier Institute later that night seeking sanctuary.[volume & issue needed 

It is revealed that the Children are after Creed because he has seen them and knows who they are, while the public believed the X-Men destroyed the town. It is only when Rogue, the leader of the team, injected Nano-Sentinels into Sabretooth's blood that they take him along with their fight against the Children, a factor that one of the Children exploited. At one point, Cannonball saved his life during the battle. Sabretooth rewards him with some inside information: "The first time you turn your back, you're dead." Following the incident on Providence, Creed escaped the X-Men, but was hurled into the middle of the Pacific Ocean by Cable.[volume & issue needed 

Writer Mike Carey noted he has no plans on redeeming Sabretooth, saying, "I'm not going to try and show a heroic side to Sabretooth's nature; I'm not going to retcon him so that there are reasons for his actions that make him forgivable. The things he's done are not forgivable and he can't be redeemed. I'm not making him into a hero; I'm making him into a team member and there are reasons within the first storyline as to why he ends up fighting alongside the X-Men against another enemy. And there are reasons why it's not so easy to simply shake him off again afterwards. There are things that are going on that will sort of unfold during the first year of my run which explain his being there and explain his being accepted with very, very grave misgivings into the team."  

Death[edit 

This section may contain an excessive amount of intricate detail that may only interest a specific audience. Please help relocate any relevant information, and remove excessive detail that may be against Wikipedia's inclusion policy. (December 2014)
Sabretooth renews his rivalry with Wolverine following the latter's return to the X-Mansion. A fight soon breaks out with Wolverine tossing Sabretooth through a window. During the fight, Wolverine thinks back to the time when Sabretooth had, supposedly, killed Silver Fox. He remembers Sabretooth saying, "quod sum eris" and asks what it means. Sabretooth explains that it means "I am what you will be." Wolverine loses control and calls Sabretooth insane before placing his fist against Sabretooth's throat. Creed tells him if he extracts his claws, he will rip his heart out. Wolverine replies, "Let 'er rip," and pops his claws into Sabretooth's throat.   Wolverine later regains consciousness and finds himself chained to the roof of the Blackbird. He quickly breaks free of the chains and is surprised to find Sabretooth piloting the jet. Wolverine breaks into the cockpit and begins choking Sabretooth with one of the chains and causes him to crash.[volume & issue needed 

The two emerge from the flaming wreckage and, while healing from the injuries sustained in the crash, begin fighting once again until separated by a lightning bolt, courtesy of Wolverine's former teammate and current Queen of Wakanda, Storm.   A short time later Sabretooth is chained up in the royal palace of Wakanda and complains to Wolverine, Storm, and the Black Panther. Sabretooth snaps the chains and escapes into the jungle, with the Black Panther quickly giving chase. The Black Panther catches up to him and the two begin to fight, with Sabretooth quickly gaining the upper hand. He holds the Black Panther off the ground by the neck, preparing to strike a killing blow, when Wolverine suddenly appears and slices off Sabretooth's left hand.  

Once the fight between the Black Panther and Sabretooth is broken up by Wolverine, Sabretooth is brought back to the Wakandan Palace and placed in a vibranium holding cell and guarded around the clock. The battle scene between the Black Panther and Sabretooth then becomes the focus of why Wolverine was brought to the palace in the first place. It seems that amongst the bones from an elephant graveyard, there are also some unidentified skeletal remains of another offshoot of Homo sapiens called "Lupus sapiens." The Black Panther and Wolverine are discussing that instead of there being one evolutionary path between humans and monkeys, that there may also have been one that developed from lupines. It is believed at this point that Romulus is the first of this race, and it is revealed that he has been the one behind Daken's attacks, and the driving force behind the Weapon X program. After the discussion with the Black Panther, Wolverine is awakened by the stench of blood from something that has a scent similar to his and Sabretooth's and also something else. It turns out to be an enhanced Wild Child who has now surpassed the abilities of both Wolverine and Sabretooth, thanks to Romulus. Wild Child strikes Wolverine with poison-tipped claws and incapacitates him for two days. When Wolverine awakens, he finds Sasquatch, Wolfsbane, and Feral and her sister Thornn ready to go back with him to the Weapon X complex so that they might get to the bottom of this lupine mystery.[volume & issue needed 

Once they all arrive at the Weapon X facility, Wolverine is plagued by memories that seem to mix past and present together and all of them controlled by Romulus. Wolverine goes in alone telling the others to stay put on the plane, but they do not listen. Feral and Thornn, who were granted their lupine appearance back by Romulus, are separated and Sabretooth, reduced to his animalistic state, has gutted Feral and she is dying. Wolverine gets Feral back to the ship and finds that Thornn and Wolfsbane are in shock from the encounter, along with Sasquatch having been incapacitated by Wild Child. Once they are on their way, Wolverine goes back to the Xavier Institute and asks Cyclops to give him back the Muramasa sword, which he gave to Scott in case he was too out of control and needed to be put down for good. Cyclops only does this after Emma Frost reads Wolverine's mind and sees the horrors that Wolverine has been witnessing when he dreams: the horrors committed by Victor Creed throughout the years. Sword in hand, Wolverine then sets out to find and kill Sabretooth once and for all.  

After the events in "Evolution", Wolverine has been waiting for an unspecified length of time at Silver Fox's cabin in the Canadian wilderness. Sabretooth finally shows up and immediately attacks him. In the ensuing battle Wolverine cuts off Sabretooth's left arm with the Muramasa. Sabretooth, still in his animalistic state tries to re-attach his arm allowing his healing factor to kick in, but it does not work. Wolverine explains to a bewildered Creed that it is because the sword interrupts the healing factor and that he has to finally kill Sabretooth for what he's done. Managing to regain control and speak between grunts, Sabretooth tells him, "Do it." Wolverine then decapitates Sabretooth, finally putting an end to his long-time enemy. Logan then walks away, leaving both Creed's body and head in the snow to rot.  

Hell[edit 
Sabretooth appears to Wolverine, leashed and under the control of the Devil himself, who has claimed to have broken Victor's will. 0  Victor shows defiance by striking the face of his defeated master after Wolverine uses his broken bone claws to pin Satan to a wall.   After Wolverine has an interrupted discussion with his father, it is shown that Victor wields Satan's sword, which is being held as a symbol of who is the ruler of Hell. Wolverine fights Victor again, mentioning, as he beheads him once more, that there's no coming back when you're killed by the sword. Wolverine leaves Victor's beheaded soul lying in the pit of Hell. 2 

Return[edit 

This section may contain an excessive amount of intricate detail that may only interest a specific audience. Please help relocate any relevant information, and remove excessive detail that may be against Wikipedia's inclusion policy. (December 2014)
It was later revealed that the Sabretooth beheaded by Logan was in fact one of several clones grown by Romulus. The real Sabretooth comes out of hiding and starts a war between rival gangs in Japan.     He is hired to kill Mr. Takenaka, leader of the Yakuza, and tosses him from a jet.   Creed is later approached by other Yakuza members to accept an offer at an airport in L.A. Sabretooth says he'll miss an important meeting by going, and kills the Yakuza. He settles up his tab at the brothel and finishes his meal. Creed sets a trap for Logan before heading to his meeting but he breaks free and catches up to him. The two battle, while Creed is flying a jetpack, and crash to the ground. They land among the Yakuza, the Hand, the new Silver Samurai and Wolverine's adopted daughter. Logan goes to save his daughter and tears through Sabretooth to do so. Creed recovers and grabs the Silver Samurai.   It is later revealed he is working with Mystique and the Mind Ninjas.   Sabretooth stands beside Mystique as she repeatedly shoots Wolverine in the face. They kiss before Sabretooth heads on to the next part of his plan. He escapes with the man who hired him, Azuma Goda, to cause a war between the Hand and the Yakuza.   As Goda reveals his master plan of becoming an "invisible" ruler of Japan, Sabretooth seems to have his own plans. He allows Wolverine to slip past Goda's security and leaves Logan to kill him. Creed then saves Mystique from Lord Deathstrike and makes him an offer. The three of them arrive at a meeting of the remaining heads of East Asia, who are deciding the fate of Tokyo and kill them all as Sabretooth, along with Mystique and Lord Deathstrike, declares himself the new "invisible" ruler of East Asia.   Sabretooth later holds a party with some of Wolverine's enemies to celebrate becoming the "invisible" ruler of East Asia. After Wolverine crashes the party and defeats all the guests, he tells Sabretooth "Happy birthday, from your old pal Wolverine".  

Sabretooth trains Kade Kilgore in combat where Kade is told to focus on his hatred towards Wolverine's school. Sabretooth tells Kilgore that even if he gains pleasure from slowly hurting his enemies, the best way to destroy them is to hit them in the heart. Everything has a heart, even a school. Sabretooth asks Kilgore what's the school's heart, and Kilgore replies that the heart is Henry McCoy. At the Peak, Sabretooth ambushes Beast and they both start fighting. Sabretooth manages to wound Beast before taking his fight to Abigail Brand. With help from Beast, Abigail is able to blast Sabretooth away. 0 

Later while investigating Sabretooth's grave with Cloak, Wolverine finds that Creed's body still lies underneath the ground, which indicates that Sabretooth wasn't resurrected after all. Wolverine also discovers that it was apparently Romulus the mastermind behind everything and after being beaten to near death, he is saved by a mysterious woman with long red hair who tells him the answers lie in the Weapon X facility. When he awakes, Romulus and the stranger are gone. Wolverine goes to explore the Weapon X facility only to find that someone has been experimenting with Sabretooth's genetics and has cloned him repeatedly, suddenly one wakes up who Wolverine recognizes by scent to be the real Sabretooth.   After fighting the Sabretooth clones, Wolverine encounters the mysterious woman again who reveals herself to be Romulus' twin sister Remus. 2  She reveals that the whole "Lupine Sapiens" story was all just an elaborate hoax by her brother intended to be a ruse for his real goal of creating a master race of natural mutants artificially enhanced by a new type of adamantium created using vibranium illegally mined from Wakanda, using Wolverine as a template.[volume & issue needed  After tracking Romulus to his stronghold somewhere in Italy, Wolverine brutally attacks and incapacitates Sabretooth before confronting Romulus.   While Wolverine fights Romulus, Sabretooth fights with Cloak. While Romulus is ultimately imprisoned by Wolverine and imprisoned in the superhuman prison of the Raft by the US Government, Sabretooth manages to escape from the battle.  

Sabretooth appears as a member of Daken's short lived Brotherhood of Mutants.   Sabretooth later becomes a headmaster of the Hellfire Academy.   Sabretooth also works with Mystique to frame the original X-Men for a series of bank thefts.  

Inversion[edit 
During the AXIS storyline, Sabretooth appears as a member of Magneto's unnamed supervillain group during the fight against Red Skull's Red Onslaught form,.   Sabretooth experiencing a 'moral inversion' that turns him into a hero when the attempt to bring out the Xavier elements of Onslaught backfire, prompting Steve Rogers to recruit him and the other inverted villains into a new team of 'Astonishing Avengers' to defeat the inverted heroes.  At the end of the storyline, it is shown that his inversion from evil to good is permanent due to him having been protected by an energy shield generated by the inverted Iron Man- along with Havok- leaving him reflecting on what he has become. Sabretooth turned himself over to the authorities and plans to do good by Wolverine's example when he gets out.  

Sabretooth later joins the Avengers Unity Division and accompanies them to the High Evolutionary's Counter-Earth (which somehow resurfaced) to look for Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver.   He also assists the main Avengers team in confronting the latest version of Ultron.
Sabretooth is a mutant with a number of natural mutant powers and artificial improvements to his physiology. His primary mutant power is an accelerated healing ability that allows him to regenerate damaged or destroyed areas of his body and cellular structure far beyond the capabilities of an ordinary human. He regenerates organs such as missing eyes and large portions of flesh. Sabretooth's natural mutant attributes stem from, at least partially, his accelerated healing factor. This "healing factor" also grants him virtual immunity to poisons, most drugs, toxins, and diseases, and limited immunity to the fatigue poisons generated by his own body.   The unique regenerative qualities of his healing powers and an "age suppression factor," cause him to age at an unusually slow rate. While he is of an unknown advanced age, Sabretooth has the appearance and vitality of a man in his physical prime.

The depiction of Sabretooth's powers has evolved with his treatments by various writers. His healing power, in particular, was introduced as a retcon. When he became Wolverine's frequent antagonist, Sabretooth started being depicted as possessing a healing factor comparable to his foe's. In other, earlier appearances, Sabretooth was not depicted as possessing such a power. In The Spectacular Spider-Man vol. 1 #116, he was incapacitated when his face was severely wounded, and did not display any accelerated healing ability. In issue #119 of The Spectacular Spider-Man, a still badly scarred Sabretooth returned, and his wounds reopened when he was hit in the face by the Black Cat.

Sabretooth possesses superhumanly acute senses that are comparable to those possessed by certain animals. Sabretooth is able to see objects with greater clarity and at much greater distances than an ordinary human. His sight is enhanced to the point that he can see with this same level of clarity in almost complete darkness, just like a nocturnal cat. This could be from being able to see into the infrared and ultraviolet portions of the spectrum. 2  His sense of hearing is enhanced in a similar manner, allowing him to hear sounds that humans can not. Sabretooth is able to use his highly developed sense of smell to track targets by scent. He is able to track targets with an impressive degree of success, even if the scent has been eroded by natural factors such as weather conditions. His sense of taste is also developed to superhuman levels.

Many of Sabretooth's natural physical attributes are beyond human levels. He possesses some degree of superhuman strength (able to lift heavy objects without breaking his bones, due to his healing factor). The exact limits of his strength are unknown, but he is seemingly stronger than Wolverine. Originally, he could crush an iron barbell with ease.   Sabretooth's physical strength has been artificially enhanced at least twice. Sabretooth received his first strength enhancement from his son, Graydon Creed.   Sabretooth's strength was further enhanced after joining the latest incarnation of the Weapon X Program.   His mutant healing factor grants him superhuman stamina. He can push himself at peak capacity for several days before fatigue begins to affect him.  

His agility and reflexes were enhanced beyond the human body's natural limits. With an ability to flex, relax, and reflex his musculature at dramatically improved speeds, Sabretooth's pounce can be devastating. As depicted in both movies and comics throughout his appearances, most enemies can not react to his leap before being hit.   Combined with the ability to stalk, move quietly, and see in the dark he has the initiative in a fight. Even Wolverine's instincts are incapable of countering this effect fully (although he is frequently depicted smelling Sabretooth just before taking a painful strike).[citation needed 

Sabretooth's physical appearance is described with animal-like mutations, including sharper-than-normal teeth with two pronounced canines and retractable claws   where ordinary humans have fingernails and toenails. He also was portrayed to have thick, bushy eyebrows, which gave him an animal like appearance as well.   His eyes were supposed to be depicted as amber without visible pupils, as this was noted by the Foreigner as something that caused him to stand out.[volume & issue needed  However, colorists also depicted his eyes with red, blue, grey, brown, or hazel irises.[citation needed 

Later, just prior to Wolverine's marriage to Viper, Sabretooth's skeleton and claws were molecularly laced with the indestructible metal adamantium by Apocalypse,   who later removed it and bonded it to Wolverine's bones.   Later, the Weapon X program bonded adamantium to his bones once more.   However, Sabretooth did not have adamantium connective tissues in his joints and wrists, only adamantium bones, therefore his limbs could be severed.   According to the official Marvel Comics website, Sabretooth still possessed an adamantium skeleton. Even without the adamantium enhanced edge, Sabretooth's claws were capable of cutting most conventional materials including flesh, bone, wood, stone, and some types of metals.

Skills
Sabretooth is an excellent hand-to-hand combatant, having been trained by various organizations such as the CIA, Weapon X, the Foreigner, and HYDRA. He is also an expert hunter and tracker, even without the use of his heightened senses. Sabretooth also developed a high resistance to telepathic probing and manipulation, after an incident in which Wolverine stabbed him under the chin with a claw, and punctured his brain.   Although his extreme arrogance and bestial nature gives him the appearance of stupidity, he is actually quite intelligent. He routinely has hacked into government databases to steal classified information[citation needed  and has escaped the highest levels of incarceration. He is also quite skilled at psychological manipulation.
