The X-Men found a mutant similar to Kuan-Yin Xorn. While quarantined he was examined by Emma Frost. He explained that he was Kuan-Yin's twin and his brain formed a black hole rather than a star. He claimed his brother had been affected by an outside influence, later revealed to be Sublime, that caused his madness and posing as Magneto.

While the X-Men faced the Brotherhood, Xorn removed his helmet to draw them into the black hole, including Juggernaut and Nocturne. Afterwards, he wanted some time to meditate on the subject instead of joining the team like his late brother. The black hole inside of Shen Xorn's head led to the Mojoworld where the Brotherhood members gave Juggernaut and Nocturne to Mojo for their freedom. Juggernaut and Nocturne later found a way to escape Mojo.

Shen lost his powers during M-Day.
Like his brother, Shen has a star for a brain. Shen's star manifested as a black hole. He lost them during M-Day.

Miniature Black Hole (Formerly): The black hole in Xorn's head allowed him to emit the same energies a black hole does. Most notably he gave off gravity. Shen's black hole was capable of sucking up instantly another being. Xorn was capable of reversing his black holes natural state. That is, Shen could cause his star to flare up into a sun.

Gravitational Electromagnetism (Formerly): could feel the movement of energy and emotion on many scales. He possessed gravitational senses that allowed him to manipulate energy for a variety of purposes, including warping of gravity fields, sensing when a death had occurred in his vicinity, shaking gravitational particles in the air around him which allowed him to speak other languages, and to heal others.
Self-Sustenance (Formerly): Given the nature of his mutant abilities, Shen Xorn did not need to breathe, nor did he require food or water to survive.
Telepathy (Formerly): Ability to read minds.
Like his brother, Shen has a star for a brain. Shen's star manifested as a black hole. He lost them during M-Day.

In Grant Morrison's critically acclaimed and revolutionary New X-Men run, a new character was introduced called Xorn. Xorn was eventually revealed to be the X-Men's greatest foe Magneto who had infiltrated the X-Men and made a complete mockery of Xavier's dream and naivety before launching an enormous attack on New York City. Marvel were unhappy with the portrayal of Magneto, presenting him as blatantly having fell from grace and entirely remorselessly evil, and disliked getting rid of the Xorn character who had proved popular. Immediately after Grant Morrison departed, writers Chris Claremont and Chuck Austen set about retconning what had happened. To this end, Claremont revealed Magneto was alive and Xorn was not Magneto but a delusional imposter, whereas Austen introduced Shen Xorn, Xorn's twin brother, to explain Xorn's status and also fill Marvel's desires of keeping Xorn around. Ironically, Shen Xorn almost immediately fell into limbo after Austen left the book a few issues later and the character never made an appearance again. The only reference to Shen Xorn since was the acknowledgement that he was one of the many de-powered mutants in Decimation, as his name was shown on a S.H.I.E.L.D. database.
Shen Xorn turned up after the original Xorn was killed by Wolverine. Claiming to be Xorn's twin brother and that his brother was being controlled by Sublime, Shen was taken into the X-Men's care until they could determine the truth. This was confirmed by Emma Frost when she telepathically read his mind. Xorn later saved the X-Men from the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants being led by Exodus by opening his helmet and lets out a black hole from his head. He was later affected by M-Day, thus became depowered.
