Storm (Ororo Munroe ) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, commonly in association with the X-Men. The character first appeared in Giant-Size X-Men #1 (May 1975),  and was created by writer Len Wein and artist Dave Cockrum.

The daughter of a tribal princess from Kenya, but raised in Harlem and Cairo, Storm is a member of a fictional subspecies of humanity known as mutants, who are born with superhuman abilities. Storm has the ability to control the weather and can fly. She is a member of the X-Men, a group of mutant heroes who fight for peace and equality between mutants and humans. Possessed of natural leadership skills and some of the most formidable powers in her team, Storm has led the X-Men from time to time, and has also been a member of the Avenger and the Fantastic Four. As an adult, Storm married her fellow superhero Black Panther, and was by marriage made queen consort of the African nation of Wakanda, but lost this title when they divorced.

The character is one of the most prominent X-Men, having appeared in many X-Men incarnations. Storm appears in four installments of the live-action X-Men film series, where she is portrayed by actress Halle Berry and will be played by Alexandra Shipp in X-Men: Apocalypse.
Ever since her inception in 1975, Storm's biography has largely stayed the same. The framework was laid first by Chris Claremont, who fleshed out her backstory in Uncanny X-Men #102 (1976)  and Uncanny X-Men #117 (1979).  Some reinterpretations were made in 2005 and 2006, where writers Mark Sumerak and Eric Jerome Dickey, respectively, rewrote part of her early history in the miniseries Ororo: Before the Storm   and Storm (vol. 2). 2 

According to established Marvel canon, Ororo Munroe is born in New York City as the child of Kenyan tribal princess N'Dare and American photographer David Munroe. When Ororo is six months old, she and her parents move to the Egyptian capital of Cairo. Five years later, during the Suez Crisis, a fighter jet crashes into her parents' house, killing them. Buried under tons of rubble, Ororo survives but is orphaned and left with intense claustrophobia. Her fear was once so intense that she was known to revert to a fetal position and approach a catatonic state.  (In recent years, Storm has more or less conquered her claustrophobia,   and can freely move in tight spaces, even over long periods of time.  ) After the death of her parents, Ororo wanders Cairo's back-alleys for a few weeks, until she is picked up by the benign street lord Achmed el-Gibar and becomes a prolific thief;   among her victims is her future mentor Professor X who is there to meet the Shadow King.  Following an inner urge, she wanders into the Serengeti as a teenager and meets T'Challa, who would become her future husband. Despite strong mutual feelings, the two part ways.   2 

In the Serengeti, Ororo first displays her mutant ability to control the weather. Sometime after this, she met the witch-priestess, Ainet, who took her in and became her surrogate mother. Once, when their village was going through a terrible drought, Storm commanded rain for days just to help them. By doing this, she threw off the natural order of nature, and droughts were formed over numerous villages, and hundreds of animals were killed. Sensing the damage she had done, Ainet told Storm of her kind but ill-thought-out gesture, and of the damage she caused. Ainet took this opportunity to explain to Ororo how her powers worked with nature, and how she could fix the problem by properly distributing rain.  

For a time, she is worshiped as a rain goddess to an African tribe, practicing nudism and tribal spirituality, before being recruited by Professor X into the X-Men. Ororo receives the code name “Storm” and is established as a strong, serene character.  In her early career with the X-Men, she suffers a major claustrophobic attack, which prompts a revelation of her origin to her teammates.   When Magneto captures the team, Storm frees the X-Men from captivity.   Storm is later captured by the White Queen,   leading up to the X-Men's clash with Dark Phoenix.   She becomes deputy leader of the X-Men, 0  and supplants her colleague Cyclops as leader of the X-Men,   a role she fills out during most of her time as a superhero. She briefly became "Rogue Storm",   and even switched bodies with the White Queen. 2  She is attacked by Dracula,   and defeats Callisto, becoming the new leader of the Morlocks.   Following her leadership of the Morlocks through combat with Callisto, Storm begins to develop a darker side. Eventually, the X-Men are invited to Japan for Wolverine's wedding to Mariko Yashida. It is here that she meets Wolverine's old friend Yukio, and the two become fast friends. Storm is inspired by Yukio, who encourages Storm to embrace her emerging darker side. This leads Storm to drastically change her outward appearance to match her inner self and thus don her iconic punk drab.  

Storm is eventually deprived of her superhuman powers by a gun fired by Henry Peter Gyrich; unknown to her, this device was designed by the mutant inventor Forge.   The depowered Ororo then first meets and falls in love with Forge, although he does not initially tell her that he is responsible for her power loss.   She helps Forge battle Dire Wraiths,   before leaving him to rejoin the X-Men. She aids the New Mutants against the Shadow King Amahl Farouk.   She next journeys to Asgard with the X-Men, where she is briefly enslaved by Loki. 0  She is nearly killed in a confrontation with Andreas von Strucker.   She defeats Cyclops in a competition to become the X-Men's leader. 2  Not long after that, she is reunited with Forge,   regains her superhuman powers,   and dies with the X-Men in giving her life force to defeat the Adversary; she is resurrected by Roma.   She is reverted to childhood by the mutant Nanny,   meets Gambit,   and is finally returned to adulthood - however, she is enslaved by the Genoshans, but regains her free will and escapes captivity.   Concerning her personal life, she is for a long time romantically involved with fellow X-Man Forge, and even considers marrying him before breaking up. 0 

After 90% of the mutants of the world lose their powers, Storm leaves the X-Men to go to Africa; rekindles her relationship with T'Challa, now a superhero known as Black Panther; marries him; and becomes the queen of the kingdom of Wakanda   and joins the new Fantastic Four alongside her husband when Reed and Sue take a vacation.   On a mission in space, the Watcher told Black Panther and Storm that their children would have a special destiny. 0  Upon Reed and Sue's return to the Fantastic Four, Storm and the Black Panther leave, with Storm returning to the Uncanny X-Men to help out with events in Messiah Complex. After joining with the X-Men again, Storm is confronted by Cyclops over her position as an X-Man and a Queen. Cyclops reminds her that she made him choose between family and duty before, and she needs to make the same decision. Storm reacts by returning to Wakanda to face a despondent Black Panther, with the two seemingly falling out with each other, although it is later revealed that the Black Panther has been possessed by the Shadow King. After incapacitating the possessed T'Challa, Storm battled Cyclops, who had been mentally enthralled by the Shadow King to kill the other X-Men. After being forced to drive him out by striking Cyclops through the chest with a massive lightning bolt, the Shadow King then took control of Storm, only to be devoured in vengeance by Bast, the Panther God, who had agreed to hide inside of Storm's mind in order to take revenge on the Shadow King for possessing T'Challa. 
Storm is one of the most powerful mutants on Earth and has demonstrated a plethora of abilities, most of which are facets of her power to manipulate the weather.  Storm possesses the psionic ability to control all forms of weather over vast areas. She has been able to control both Earthly and extraterrestrial ecosystems on several occasions. She can modify the temperature of the environment, control all forms of precipitation, humidity and moisture (at a molecular level), generate lightning and other electromagnetic atmospheric phenomena, and has demonstrated excellent control over atmospheric pressure. She can incite all forms of meteorological tempests, such as tornadoes, thunderstorms, blizzards, and hurricanes,  as well as mist. She can dissipate such weather to form clear skies as well.

Her precise control over the atmosphere allows her to create special weather effects. She can create precipitation at higher or lower altitudes than normal, make whirlwinds travel pointing lengthwise in any direction, channel ambient electromagnetism through her body to generate electric blasts, flash freeze objects and people, coalesce atmospheric pollutants into acid rain or toxic fog, and, along with her natural ability of flight, summon wind currents strong enough to support her weight to elevate herself (or others) to fly at high altitudes and speeds. Her control is so great that she can even manipulate the air in a person's lungs. She can also control the pressure inside the human inner ear, an ability she uses to cause intense pain. She can also bend light using moisture in the air and her manipulation of mist and fog to appear partially transparent, and in later comics, nearly invisible.

Storm has also demonstrated the ability to control natural forces that include cosmic storms, solar wind, ocean currents, and the electromagnetic field. She has demonstrated the ability to separate water molecules into oxygen and hydrogen via electrolysis, allowing her to breathe underwater.  While in outer space, she is able to affect and manipulate the interstellar and intergalactic media. Storm can alter her visual perceptions so as to see the universe in terms of energy patterns, detecting the flow of kinetic, thermal and electromagnetic energy behind weather phenomena and can bend this energy to her will.

Storm has been shown to be sensitive to the dynamics of the natural world, and her psionic powers over weather are affected by her emotions. One consequence of this connection to nature is that she often suppresses extreme feelings to prevent her emotional state from resulting in violent weather. She has once sensed a diseased and dying tree on the X-Mansion grounds, detected objects within various atmospheric mediums-including water, and sensed the incorrect motion of a hurricane in the Northern Hemisphere and the gravitational stress on the tides by the Moon and Sun as well as the distortion of a planet's magnetosphere.  Storm can view the Earth as weather patterns, and is able to precisely recognize her geographic position through interpretations of these patterns.  Storm's mutant abilities are limited by her willpower and the strength of her body. Sentinels have considered Storm an Omega-level mutant on one occasion. 

Magical potential[edit 
Storm's ancestry supports the use of magic and witchcraft.  Many of her ancestors were sorceresses and priestesses. Storm's matrilineal powers have even been linked to the real-world Rain Queens of Balobedu, the region from which her Sorceress Supreme ancestor, Ayesha, hails. The Mystic Arcana series deals with Storm's ancestor Ashake, who worships the Egyptian goddess Ma'at, also known as Oshtur - the mother of Agamotto.  Oshtur appears to have strong favor for the bloodline of Ororo.[volume & issue needed  For some unknown reason, since the dawn of Atlantis, this line of African women has been given distinguishing features of white hair, blue eyes, and powerful magic potential.[volume & issue needed  Although Storm has not developed her magical potential, it has been hinted at.  The Mystic Arcana series lists the characters with magic potential according to the Marvel Tarot deck. The Tarot asserts Storm as being "High Priestess", the First Tarot's choice one-third of the time. The other draws were the Scarlet Witch and Agatha Harkness. These three characters split the High Priestess card equally. A timeline-divergent Storm became the sorceress who taught sorcery to Magik and some of Storm's alternate universe selves possess considerable magical talent.  On a separate note, it has been stated that Storm's spirit is so strong that she was able to host the consciousness of an avatar (or "manifestation body" ) of Eternity; in a gathering consisting of herself, Doctor Strange, Black Panther, Silver Surfer and the Fantastic Four, she and Doctor Strange were the only viable candidates. 

Combat and thievery[edit 
Storm is an expert thief, and a skilled, cunning and gifted hand-to-hand fighter, trained by Achmed el-Gibar, Professor X, Wolverine and T'Challa, the Black Panther. By using superior strategy, Storm has overcome physically stronger foes like Callisto and the Crimson Commando in hand-to-hand combat. Storm is an excellent marksman with handguns, and is proficient in the use of knives. Storm is also fluent in Russian, Arabic and Swahili. As part of her paraphernalia, Storm carries a set of lock-picks (with which she has an extraordinary ability at picking locks, in an early appearance she was able to pick a lock with her teeth while her physical coordination was reduced to the level of an infant ) and her ancestral ruby, which allows inter-dimensional transportation with the help of her lightning. 

Physical abilities and traits[edit 
Storm's weather powers allow her body to compensate for climate extremes; on one occasion as she was trying to control an unnatural storm she becomes overwhelmed as her body temperature rises too high.  In The Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe - X-Men (2004), it is stated that her powers enable her to breathe while moving at any speed and protect her from air friction, while granting her protection from temperature extremes of heat and cold; the All-New Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Update #1 (2007) states that Storm's body changes temperature in opposition to her environment so that the colder the environment the warmer her body gets, and the warmer the environment the colder her body gets.

Her body compensates for rapid decreases or increases in atmospheric pressure.  She can see in near-complete darkness and has superb dexterity.   Storm has been described as having one of the strongest wills among the X-Men, making her highly resistant to psychic attacks especially in tandem with electrical fields she creates around herself. Telepaths have found it difficult to track her down and probe her thoughts. Several of these traits are independent of her mutant status and are a result of her ancestry. Also, when utilizing her powers, Storm's eyes turn solid white. 

Storm has been stated to be a possible Omega-Level Mutant.   Her potential is as of yet unrealized, and on one occasion the Super Giant stated that Storm was an "Omega-Level Mutate", grouping and targeting her with Omega-Level mutants such as Iceman and Rachel Grey. 

Storm's real name "Ororo" is translated in her tribal language as "Beauty".
