Sunder (Mark Hallett) is a mutant in the Marvel Universe, a member of the Morlocks. The character, created by Chris Claremont and Paul Smith, first appeared in Uncanny X-Men #169 (May 1983).

Within the context of the stories, Sunder's mutant powers give him superhuman strength, stamina and durability. He is a founding member of the Morlocks, abandoning the identity he had in the surface human world. Sunder is the aide to Callisto, the muscle of his group who is very protective of them, especially Callisto. On Callisto's orders, he kidnaps Angel to the realm of the Morlocks.  He later aids Callisto in abducting Kitty Pryde and attempting to force Pryde to marry the Morlock Caliban.  He also serves the wizard Kulan Gath when the latter took over Manhattan.  Some time later, he took up residence on Muir Island.[volume & issue needed  He briefly joins the "Muir Island" X-Men organized by Moira MacTaggert, but is killed by the cyborg Pretty-Boy with a bullet wound in the back when the Reavers invade Muir Island. 

Other versions of Sunder[edit 
In the alternate Age of Apocalypse reality, Sunder is known as Brute and is a member of the Outcasts, alongside Nate Grey.  He is killed by Mister Sinister. 
In the House of M timeline, Sunder is seen as a member of the Genoshan Black Ops version of the Marauders.[volume & issue needed 
Sunder is introduced to the Ultimate Marvel Universe in Ultimate X-Men #82 as the leader of the Ultimate Morlocks.  His desire to fight and kill any perceived threat, instead of using diplomatic means, results in his demotion as leader and replacement by Nightcrawler.[volume & issue needed  In Ultimate X-Men #90 he is forced to bring some innocent mutants to Mister Sinister
Not much is known about the mysterious mutant called Sunder, except he was a founding member of the Morlocks, abandoning whatever identity he may once have had in the surface human world. Sunder was the aide to Callisto, and was the muscles of his group and was very protective of them, especially Callisto. On Callisto's orders, he kidnapped Angel to the realm of the Morlocks. He later aided Callisto in abducting Kitty Pryde and attempting to force Pryde to marry the Morlock Caliban. He also served the wizard Kulan Gath when the latter took over Manhattan. Some time later, he took up residence on Muir Island. He briefly joined the "Muir Island" X-Men organized by Moira MacTaggert, but was shortly killed by the cyborg Pretty-Boy with a bullet wound in the back when the Reavers invaded Muir Island.
Powers and Abilities
Powers
Sunder's mutation granted him various superhuman physical attributes.

Superhuman Strength: Sunder possessed great superhuman strength. At his peak, he was capable of lifting about 70 tons.

Superhuman Stamina: Sunder's superhumanly enhanced musculature was much more efficient than that of a normal human. His muscles produced considerably less fatigue toxins during physical activity. At his peak, he could exert himself for up to 24 hours before the build up of fatigue toxins in his blood began to impair him.

Superhuman Durability: Sunder was tougher and much more resistant to physical injury than a normal human. He could withstand great impact forces, falls from great heights, exposure to high temperatures, and small caliber bullets without sustaining injury.

Abilities
Although he had little formal training, Sunder was a formidable hand to hand combatant. He primarily used street fighting techniques that allowed him to make full use of his strength.