Ava'Dara Naganandini is an elite Shi'ar warrior of the Warbirds assigned to protect the ruling family. Warbird was born 22 years ago in a breedmart warehouse in Chandilar's flesh bazaar district. Her "father" was an automated seed sprinkler and her "mother" was one of thousands of frozen eggs harvested each month from female factory workers as part of their government-mandated body-tax. Warbird birth mother was an alien slave brought from a conquered world whose body wasn't meant to birth a Shi'ar and so she died after giving birth to Ava'Dara. Ava'Dara worked in a war factory and learned how to assemble a pulse canon before she learned how to talk. Ava'Dara loved to draw as a child but she would burn her drawing as she considered what she liked wasn't the way of the Shi'ar. She trained and gain the Warbird title in an academy . At unknown point in her life she conducted "mating rituals" with someone while trapped inside another being and surrounded by flesh eating monster aliens.  After showing mercy to a child in a mission the Shi'ar wanted her to hate children so her punishment was that she was sent by Emperor Gladiator, to escort Kid Gladiator as his personal bodyguard. Kid Gladiator was sent to Earth as a punishment for destroying more than half of the Shi'ar royal city on Chandilar, so was brought with him to "protect" his son from danger.  

Jean Grey School for Higher Learning
Warbird arrived with Kid Gladiator to Earth at the first day for school. During an attack on the Jean Grey School of Higher Learning by Krakoa, Warbird fought Krakoa and the Frankenstein monsters. When Iceman formed a group of ice-clones to fight Frankenstein monsters Warbird shows some romantic interest with one of the ice-clones. 

Exodus attack
When Exodus attacked the Jean Grey School and the students were sent to the safe room for their safety, Warbird went with Kid Gladiator and refused to let Rogue take part of his power to fight Exodus and when Rogue teleported and took part of his power through a kiss on the cheek Warbird became enraged and said she would kill her, but Kubark told her she was pardoned by royal decree. 

The Brood Attack
Warbird tried to stop Kid Gladiator from entering Kitty body but failed. . When she entered Kitty body along with the other X-men they found Kid Gladiator only to lose him again and when they find him again but he wasn't himself as the Brood turned him into one of them. 

Ava&#039;Dara Naganandini (Earth-616) and Robert Drake (Earth-616) from Wolverine and the X-Men Vol 1 7 page --
Warbird and Iceman were left to hold Kid Gladiator while Beast tried destroy the egg sac inside that infected Kitty. After Kid Gladiator used his heat vision on Iceman head, Iceman responded with restoring his face and beating Kid Gladiator to which Warbird asked him to stop doing it. Later while still Warbird confessed to Bobby that she find him without doubt the most vigorous male she encountered since she arrived to Earth and asked him if he ever conducted "mating rituals" with someone while trapped inside another being and surrounded by flesh eating monster aliens, because she did to which Bobby answered with low voice that it was a good time for Kid Gladiator to melt off his ear. After the egg sac is destroyed and Kid Gladiator is subdued the team leave Kitty body through her mouth. While Kitty was taken by S.W.O.R.D. to be cured from the remained Brood inside her she kissed Bobby while Warbird was watching and she seemed not happy about it. 

Ava&#039;Dara Naganandini (Earth-616) 002
The Marauders
Warbird entered Gambit apartment with a decapitated head in her hand saying: it has begun, and when the Marauders broke into the apartment she helped the team fighting them.   When Iceman was hurt by Chimera she was shown to be worried about him. She choose to fight Vanisher from the Marauders and told him she will find a way to cut his head off. When Iceman covered the area she thought it was magnificent and when Bobby noted she is looking at in a weird way she told him she want to conducted "mating rituals" with him right now.

 Marvel Database
On the Wiki
Wiki Activity
Random page
Videos
Photos
Chat
Forum
Maps
Hubs
Characters
Comics
Community
 Contribute  Watchlist	Random page	Recent changes
Ava'Dara Naganandini (Earth-616)
   
148,989PAGES ON
THIS WIKI Edit    Talk0
HelpWarbird
Ava&#039;Dara Naganandini (Earth-616) from Wolverine and the X-Men Vol 1 27
Gallery
Information-silkReal Name	Ava'Dara Naganandini  
Information-silkCurrent Alias	Warbird
Information-silkAliases	Bird of War, Warbird Delta 
Information-silkRelatives	unnamed alien mother (deceased)  
Information-silkAffiliation	X-Men (Jean Grey School member); formerly Murder Circus (brainwashed), protector of Kid Gladiator, Warbirds
Information-silkBase Of Operations	Jean Grey School For Higher Learning, Salem Center, Westchester County, New York
Status
Information-silkIdentity	Secret Identity
Information-silkCitizenship	Shi'ar Empire
Information-silkMarital Status	Single
Information-silkOccupation	Bodyguard
Characteristics
Information-silkGender	Female
Information-silkEyes	White
Information-silkHair	White
Information-silkUnusual Features	Feathers
Origin
Information-silkOrigin	Shi'ar
Information-silkUniverse	Earth-616
Information-silkCreators	Jason Aaron, Chris Bachalo
First Appearance	
Wolverine and the X-Men #1
(December, 2011)
Comic Book Showcase
Season 2 - Episode 2CBS S2E2 Cover
Agents of SHIELD Season 3 Premiere

Watch Now! | View All


Contents[show 

History
Quote1 My name is Ava'Dara Naganandini. Soldier of the Shi'ar Imperium. Royal Warbird. Deathbringer class. I know the way of the Shi'ar. I know how to kill. how to die if need be. I just wish... I wish I knew how to live.  Quote2
-- Warbird src
 
Ava&#039;Dara Naganandini (Earth-616) 007
Ava'Dara as a child
Origin
Ava'Dara Naganandini is an elite Shi'ar warrior of the Warbirds assigned to protect the ruling family. Warbird was born 22 years ago in a breedmart warehouse in Chandilar's flesh bazaar district. Her "father" was an automated seed sprinkler and her "mother" was one of thousands of frozen eggs harvested each month from female factory workers as part of their government-mandated body-tax. Warbird birth mother was an alien slave brought from a conquered world whose body wasn't meant to birth a Shi'ar and so she died after giving birth to Ava'Dara. Ava'Dara worked in a war factory and learned how to assemble a pulse canon before she learned how to talk. Ava'Dara loved to draw as a child but she would burn her drawing as she considered what she liked wasn't the way of the Shi'ar. She trained and gain the Warbird title in an academy . At unknown point in her life she conducted "mating rituals" with someone while trapped inside another being and surrounded by flesh eating monster aliens.  After showing mercy to a child in a mission the Shi'ar wanted her to hate children so her punishment was that she was sent by Emperor Gladiator, to escort Kid Gladiator as his personal bodyguard. Kid Gladiator was sent to Earth as a punishment for destroying more than half of the Shi'ar royal city on Chandilar, so was brought with him to "protect" his son from danger.  

Jean Grey School for Higher Learning
Warbird arrived with Kid Gladiator to Earth at the first day for school. During an attack on the Jean Grey School of Higher Learning by Krakoa, Warbird fought Krakoa and the Frankenstein monsters. When Iceman formed a group of ice-clones to fight Frankenstein monsters Warbird shows some romantic interest with one of the ice-clones. 

Exodus attack
When Exodus attacked the Jean Grey School and the students were sent to the safe room for their safety, Warbird went with Kid Gladiator and refused to let Rogue take part of his power to fight Exodus and when Rogue teleported and took part of his power through a kiss on the cheek Warbird became enraged and said she would kill her, but Kubark told her she was pardoned by royal decree. 

The Brood Attack
Warbird tried to stop Kid Gladiator from entering Kitty body but failed. . When she entered Kitty body along with the other X-men they found Kid Gladiator only to lose him again and when they find him again but he wasn't himself as the Brood turned him into one of them. 

Ava&#039;Dara Naganandini (Earth-616) and Robert Drake (Earth-616) from Wolverine and the X-Men Vol 1 7 page --
Warbird and Iceman were left to hold Kid Gladiator while Beast tried destroy the egg sac inside that infected Kitty. After Kid Gladiator used his heat vision on Iceman head, Iceman responded with restoring his face and beating Kid Gladiator to which Warbird asked him to stop doing it. Later while still Warbird confessed to Bobby that she find him without doubt the most vigorous male she encountered since she arrived to Earth and asked him if he ever conducted "mating rituals" with someone while trapped inside another being and surrounded by flesh eating monster aliens, because she did to which Bobby answered with low voice that it was a good time for Kid Gladiator to melt off his ear. After the egg sac is destroyed and Kid Gladiator is subdued the team leave Kitty body through her mouth. While Kitty was taken by S.W.O.R.D. to be cured from the remained Brood inside her she kissed Bobby while Warbird was watching and she seemed not happy about it. 

Ava&#039;Dara Naganandini (Earth-616) 002
The Marauders
Warbird entered Gambit apartment with a decapitated head in her hand saying: it has begun, and when the Marauders broke into the apartment she helped the team fighting them.   When Iceman was hurt by Chimera she was shown to be worried about him. She choose to fight Vanisher from the Marauders and told him she will find a way to cut his head off. When Iceman covered the area she thought it was magnificent and when Bobby noted she is looking at in a weird way she told him she want to conducted "mating rituals" with him right now.  

Powers and Abilities
Powers
Ava'Dara is a Royal Warbird of Deathbringer Class  with the following abilities:

Superhuman Strength: As a Shi'ar, Warbird possesses enough strength to lift 1 ton in Earth-like gravity.
Superhuman Stamina: As a Shi'ar, Warbird possesses 20 times greater stamina than a human.
Abilities
Markswomen: She is adept at handling Shi'ar energy weapons. She was trained in the use of most Shi'ar weaponry.
Hand-to-hand Combatant: She was an excellent hand-to-hand combatant
Aviation: She is also an expert aircraft flier
Strength level
Warbird possesses the normal strength of a Shi'ar woman who engages in intensive regular exercise, She can lift (press) over 1 ton.
