Emma Grace Frost is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, most commonly in association with the X-Men. The character first appeared in Uncanny X-Men #129 (January 1980), and was created by writer Chris Claremont and artist/co-writer John Byrne. Emma Frost, also known as the White Queen, has evolved from a supervillain and foe of the X-Men, to becoming a superhero and one of the X-Men's most central members and leaders.

Frost belongs to a subspecies of humanity called mutants, who are born with superhuman abilities. She is an urbane telepath with a well-noted, dry wit.

The character appears in many adaptations of the X-Men properties, such as video games, animated programs, and live-action films. January Jones portrayed Emma Frost in the 2011 film X-Men: First Class. Other portrayals of the character include actress Finola Hughes in the 1996 film Generation X.
Emma Frost was born in Boston, Massachusetts, to the wealthy Winston and Hazel Frost; she is the third of four children, which include her older brother, Christian Frost, her older sister Adrienne Frost and her younger sister Cordelia Frost. Winston is cold, ruthless, and domineering, often imposing impossibly high standards on his children, while Hazel abuses prescription drugs to cope with the tensions of her household. Thus, Frost obtains no emotional support from her parents or her sisters, but gets along with her brother Christian.

At her school, Frost is ruthlessly bullied by her peers but finds support in teacher, Ian Kendall. When her telepathic powers manifest, Frost is able to read the minds of others and glean information. Frost becomes a tutor to the other students and Ian recommends her to be a teacher, something Frost's father refuses. On her way home from school one day, Frost's car breaks down and Ian gives her a ride home. After reading his thoughts and learning that he thinks she is beautiful and intelligent, Frost kisses him. Her sister Adrienne records it and her father uses the evidence to get Ian fired. Frost begins to fight back by blackmailing her father. Intrigued by her actions Winston offers her the family fortune but Frost rejects his offer and decides to make her own way in life. 

After a period of homelessness, Frost meets and falls in love with a young man named Troy, who agrees to let her live with him. She learns that he owes a large amount of money to a local mobster named Lucien. In order to save Troy's life, Frost agrees to participate in a fake kidnapping scheme in an attempt to extort the remainder of Troy's debt from her father. However, this soon turns into a real kidnapping and Troy is killed while valiantly attempting to save Frost from an enraged Lucien. Using her powers, Frost turns the thugs against one another and then forces the remaining henchman to free her.

Frost takes the ransom money and enrolls in Empire State University.  There, she begins to learn about mutants for the first time and meets fellow telepath Astrid Bloom, who becomes her friend and mentor. Frost later learns that Astrid has been secretly manipulating events. Furious, she attacks Astrid telepathically and leaves her comatose. Frost is later invited to the Hellfire Club,    an underground elite society. Frost discovers the plans of Edward Buckman and Steven Lang to destroy all mutants. Alongside Sebastian Shaw, Lourdes Chantel, and Harry Leland, Frost battles Lang's Sentinels. Frost kills Buckman and the Council of the Chosen, then - along with Shaw - takes control of the Hellfire Club, setting themselves up as Lords Cardinal of the Inner Circle of the Hellfire Club.  


Emma in her original look as the White Queen of the Hellfire Club. Art by John Bolton.
White Queen of the Hellfire Club[edit 
As White Queen of the Hellfire Club, Frost held many titles, one of which was Chairman of the Board and CEO of Frost International, which helps to fund the activities of the Lords Cardinal. Frost also becomes the Chairman of the Board of Trustees and headmistress of the Massachusetts Academy, a school for mutants which serves as a counterpoint to Charles Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters. Frost and the Club's agents later attempted to recruit Kitty Pryde for the Massachusetts Academy, and capture (and personally torture) several members of the X-Men, including Storm, Colossus, Wolverine, and Phoenix. Frost engages Phoenix in a psychic battle in which she is overpowered and on the verge of being killed. Frost launches a last-minute attack that led the X-Men to believe she had committed suicide,   though in truth, she was comatose and recovering from Phoenix's attack under the care of Sebastian Shaw.   In another encounter with the Hellfire Club, Frost telepathically forces Kitty Pryde's parents to transfer her from Xavier's to the Massachusetts Academy. She then switches minds with Storm in order to defeat the X-Men from within their own ranks, however, the process is soon reversed and the two are restored to their respective bodies.   She was later temporarily rendered comatose by Mastermind.  

The Hellions[edit 
During her time with the Hellfire Club, Frost continues to run the Massachusetts Academy and mentors the mutant team known as the Hellions. Frost attempts to recruit several gifted youngsters to her cause: Firestar,   Doug Ramsey and again Kitty Pryde, all of which result in altercations.   Alongside the Hellions, Frost encounters the Hellions' rival team, Xavier's New Mutants, several times.   When the New Mutants are later killed and resurrected by the Beyonder, they are left traumatized and withdrawn. Frost offers her assistance in telepathically restoring them to their former selves. She then coerces their headmaster Magneto into allowing them to join the Massachusetts Academy. 0  With Shaw and Selene, Frost invites Magneto to join the Hellfire Club.   Alongside the Hellfire Club, Frost battles the High Evolutionary's forces to rescue Magma, 2  helps Magneto search for the New Mutants when they had gone missing, encounters the effects of the Inferno, and eventually forms an alliance with Selene and Magneto to oust Shaw from the inner circle.  

Losing the Hellions[edit 
When the time traveling mutant Trevor Fitzroy unleashes the mutant-hunting robots called the Sentinels on Frost and her Hellions, Frost places herself in a psychic coma in order to survive the ordeal. Her students however, are not as lucky and are killed in action.     Frost later awakens in the Xavier Academy. Disoriented, she switches minds with Iceman and escapes but is overcome with grief when she discovers the deaths of her students. Professor Xavier is able to coax Frost to switch back.  

Generation X[edit 
Frost later teams up with the X-Men to defeat the Phalanx, and in the process, rescue a select group of teenage mutants who become a superhero team known as Generation X,   to whom Frost and Banshee becomes mentors at the reopened Massachusetts Academy. After Frost's business ventures take a bad turn, she seeks help from her estranged sister Adrienne, who is a psychometrist. Adrienne offers financial assistance but secretly plots against Frost and plants a bomb at the school, resulting in the death of Synch.   Frost tracks down and kills Adrienne,   but after returning to the Academy, grows increasingly distant from her students in an effort to hide her crime. When the students learn what Frost did, the students become estranged from her, and Generation X disbands. 0 

Joining and leading the X-Men[edit 
In dealing with the emotional fallout from the murder of her sister, Frost travels to the mutant haven island of Genosha, where she teaches at a mutant school until a genocidal Sentinel attack kills most of the island's inhabitants; Frost survives due to the sudden manifestation of her secondary mutation: the power to transform herself into a flexible, near-invulnerable, diamond-like substance. After being rescued Frost joins the X-Men and takes on a teaching position at Xavier Institute.   She mentors a group of telepathic quintuplets, the Stepford Cuckoos, who quickly become her prized pupils. Frost and the Cuckoos prove themselves when they help fight and defeat Charles Xavier's evil twin sister Cassandra Nova. As a member of the X-Men, Frost begins counselling Cyclops over his marriage with Jean however, this soon turns into a psychic, non-physical, sexual relationship. 2   

While quelling a riot at the school, one of the Stepford Cuckoos, Sophie, is killed and the others reject Frost's mentorship, blaming her for the death. They attempt to get revenge by telepathically contacting Jean about Frost's and Cyclops' psychic affair.   In the aftermath of the riot, Jean catches Frost and Summers in bed together in their minds. In a rage, Jean unleashes her reignited Phoenix powers and psychically humiliates Frost. Afterward, Frost is found physically shattered in her diamond form.   As Bishop and Sage investigate the crime, Jean uses her increasingly growing Phoenix powers to reassemble Frost's body, acknowledging that Frost has genuinely fallen in love with Scott. Revived, Frost is able to name her attempted murderer - Esme of the Stepford Cuckoos, who had mind-controlled fellow student Angel Salvadore into shooting Frost in her single flaw with a diamond bullet, under the direction of Xorn.  

Upon Jean's death, Cyclops moves on with his life with Frost. Despite the criticism from their teammates and family members, Cyclops and Frost become lovers, and the two take over the school after Professor Xavier steps down;   Frost becomes co-headmistress with Cyclops and adviser to a new team of Hellions.   She develops an antagonistic relationship with fellow teacher Kitty Pryde   and the alternate reality daughter of Jean and Cyclops, Rachel Grey, however, a truce is reached when Frost offers to help Rachel hone her telepathic abilities.   0 

"Decimation"[edit 
Following the "Decimation" storyline, the student population drastically decreases, and Frost, without consulting Cyclops, decides to revamp the entire workings of the school.  

Phoenix Warsong[edit 
During the 2006 miniseries X-Men: Phoenix - Warsong, it is revealed that Frost's ova are the genetic templates used to clone thousands of identical female telepaths, five of which had become the Stepford Cuckoos. 2  The encapsulated offspring begin to refer to Frost as "mother" - a title whose usage she later accepts.   In the end, the Phoenix (inhabiting the body of Celeste Cuckoo) destroys the thousands of additional clones, Frost is pained by the loss of her cloned children and declares revenge against the Phoenix.  

Astonishing X-Men[edit 
In the series Astonishing X-Men, a flashback shows that Frost's survival of the destruction of Genosha was due to Cassandra Nova creating Frost's secondary mutation as part of a scheme to infiltrate the X-Men as a sleeper agent.   A guilt ridden Frost creates psychic manifestations of a new Hellfire Club and proceeds to take down the X-Men one by one by showing them their deepest fears. Later on it is revealed that Frost's survivor's guilt is being exacerbated by Cassandra Nova who had placed a glimmer of her mind in Frost's before being trapped in the body of Stuff, and that Nova had even tricked Frost into thinking that she had been complicit in the destruction of Genosha.   Kitty with aid from Cyclops, Blindfold, Hisako Ichiki, and Frost herself eventually prevent Nova from transferring her mind into Hisako. Everyone present is then suddenly teleported onto a S.W.O.R.D. ship headed towards the Breakworld.   The arc concludes with Kitty trapped in the bullet heading towards Earth and the team trying to find various ways to save the Earth and save Kitty. Frost keeps in telepathic contact with Kitty, trying to reassure her, even offering to psionically sedate her. Kitty sacrifices herself, phasing the bullet through Earth. In the aftermath, the X-Men are uncertain of Kitty's fate, believing her to either be dead or at least phased into part of the runaway bullet. Frost is devastated.  

"Civil War"[edit 
During the 2006-2007 storyline "Civil War", Frost, during a conversation with Iron Man, announces that the Xavier Institute and the X-Men will not support the Superhuman Registration Act and remain neutral, as she fears that the registration of mutants would put them in more danger. 

"Messiah Complex"[edit 
During the 2007 - 2008 storyline "Messiah Complex", Frost is part of the team that investigates the detection of a new mutant in Alaska.   She also defends the X-Men from the Marauders and the telepathy of Sinister and Exodus. 0  Frost is last seen with Cyclops' team of X-Men looking for Cable and then tracking down the Marauders with the Cuckoos.   Later when X-Force arrives at the Marauders' hideout, Frost takes out Harpoon. 2  During the final battle on Muir Island, she faces Exodus, stalemating him in a telepathic duel, until Dust was able to enter his body and scour his lungs with her sand form, incapacitating him.  

"Divided We Stand"[edit 
In the 2008 storyline "Divided We Stand", Frost and Scott vacation in the Savage Land but soon leave to answer a distress call by Archangel from San Francisco.   The couple saves San Francisco from an out of control Martinique Jason.   Afterwards, the Mayor of San Francisco welcomes the X-Men with open arms as their new super-hero team and Frost and Cyclops send out a telepathic message to all remaining mutants throughout the world, informing them that San Francisco is now considered a sanctuary for the remaining mutants in the world.  

Manifest Destiny[edit 
In the 2008 - 2009 storyline "Manifest Destiny", a new anti-mutant group calling themselves the "Hellfire Cult" appears in the Bay Area, committing various anti-mutant hate crimes. They are led by Frost's former pupil, Empath, as well as a mysterious red-haired dominatrix telepath who calls herself the Red Queen. After Empath discloses his experience of lusting after Frost during his days at the Massachusetts Academy, the dominatrix takes on Frost's appearance.   While investigating the Hellfire Cult's base, Cyclops is seduced by the Red Queen. Later while at a Dazzler concert, Scott reveals that the Red Queen is none other than his dead ex-wife Madelyne Pryor.  

Frost also expresses doubts about whether or not she deserves to be an X-Man, only to have veteran X-Man Wolverine assure her that she has earned her place on the team.   Later, when Xavier attempts to warn Cyclops about his recent encounter with Sinister, Frost manages to enter the Professor's mind undetected. During the course of their encounter, Frost forces Xavier to relive each of his mistakes and morally ambiguous decisions made under altruistic pretenses. It is also revealed that while Frost is just as angry with Xavier as Cyclops is, she also wants to help him move on with his life. Frost points the Professor in a new direction by forcing him to relive the death of Moira MacTaggert and reminding him of her last words. 0   

"Secret Invasion"[edit 
In the 2008 storyline "Secret Invasion", Frost is seen fighting the Skrulls in San Francisco during the invasion. 2  There, the Skrulls set up a telepathy-blocking "wall" throughout the globe. Emma channels the Cuckoos' telepathy into her own using Cerebra in an attempt to locate the source of the psi-blockade but is left comatose.   The Cuckoos tell Cyclops that Emma is dead, unaware that Emma's telepathic mind is continuing to battle the psychic team of Skrulls. Setting a series of traps through misdirection, Emma manages to break free and shut down the psi-blockade.   Following the Skrulls' defeat, she is introduced as a member of a secret cabal, consisting of herself, Norman Osborn, Doctor Doom, Loki, Namor and the Hood, who are manipulating events in their favor.  

"Dark Reign"[edit 
In the 2008-2009 storyline "Dark Reign", Frost, after waking from a vision about the Sentry, is invited to join Norman Osborn's Cabal.     At the meeting, it is revealed that she and Prince Namor share a romantic history. During her days as the White Queen, Sebastian Shaw sent Frost to convince Namor to join the Hellfire Club. Instead, Namor took her to his kingdom and they began a relationship. Believing Frost to have betrayed him for Namor, Shaw sent a reprogrammed sentinel to Atlantis, attacking the two and destroying the kingdom. When Namor confronted Shaw for his treachery, Sage took a telepathic hold of Frost, erasing her memories of Namor, who vowed revenge on Shaw. In the present, Frost reveals that after her initial battle with the Phoenix she pieced her memories of Namor back together. She makes a pact with him, seducing Shaw and using her telepathy to make Namor believe she has executed him, while secretly telepathically incapacitating Shaw. Per their deal, Namor vows to protect mutant-kind as his own people, while Frost, more determined to fill her role as a leader of mutant-kind, contacts Scott to have Shaw captured by the X-Men for "crimes against mutant-kind."  Approaching him later in his cell, Frost reveals that she has captured Shaw for Namor and on the basis that the Sentinels he commissioned were ones later used by Cassandra Nova to destroy Genosha. She sentences him to remember nothing but the faces of the Genoshan victims using her telepathy.  

Sisterhood of Mutants[edit 
The Red Queen, along with her magically-powered Sisterhood of Mutants attack the X-Men with the end goal of locating Jean Grey's corpse. Lady Mastermind ambushes Frost nullifying her mind with a mixture of magical and psychic chaff. Frost has a vision telling her to prepare for future events involving the Phoenix Force and eventually breaks free.   She defeats the Mastermind sisters and later attacks the rest of the Sisterhood at their base with the X-Men. 0 

Dark X-Men[edit 
Frost is appointed by Norman Osborn to lead his new team of "Dark X-Men". Each member is hand-picked by Norman but Frost has Namor added to the team for her own reasons.   The team debuts to the public as the official "X-Men" maintaining high public approval through Osborn's careful media strategy. They oust the original X-Men, portraying them as a dangerous militia. 2  Meanwhile, Frost discovers that Osborn is working with the Dark Beast, torturing apprehended mutants and feeding their powers into a machine that empowers Weapon Omega.   Cyclops sends X-Force on a strategic evacuation of the mutant prisoners, resulting in a planned confrontation with the Dark X-Men. As the teams prepare to face off, Frost then reveals her role as a double agent, defeating the Dark X-Men with Namor's assistance. She extends an invitation to Cloak and Dagger to join the true X-Men as they teleport to the newly created island base Utopia. Upon learning of this, Norman orders his Dark Avengers and Dark X-Men to go after Frost, Namor, and Scott.   During the final battle, Frost distracts the godlike Sentry by separating the Void persona from his Bob Reynolds persona. Doing so allows the Sentry to regain control and flee the battle, however, Frost cannot contain the Void and it chases after the Sentry, though a sliver of it remains within her body.   Frost is forced to remain in Diamond Form in order to prevent the sliver of the Void from utilizing her omega level psychic abilities.   Eventually it came to the decision to extract the Void. With Professor X's aid, they bridged Cyclops' mind to Frost. However, the Void instead took over his body, only for Scott to contain it within an inescapable prison in his mind.  

Necrosha[edit 
Main article: Necrosha
Frost, Sebastian Shaw and Donald Pierce are targeted by Selene for betraying her years ago in her plan to ascend to godhood. Additionally, Selene is also angry over Frost using the Black Queen moniker when she was leading the Dark X-Men. She resurrects the Hellions and sends them to attack and taunt Frost.  > Their appearance is enough, to leave Frost in a horrified state of shock and guilt. Once Selene's inner circle appears on Utopia Frost recognizes Blink and stops Wolverine from killing Wither. However, in the aftermath Selene's inner circle succeed in capturing Warpath, injuring Angel and ruthlessly killing Onyxx and Diamond Lil before returning to Necrosha. Frost recognizes that the threat will not end until Selene and her inner circle are permanently stopped, and orders X-Force to travel to Necrosha and kill them all, including Wither.  

"Second Coming"[edit 
During the events of the 2010 "Second Coming" storyline, Frost acts as moral support to Scott as well as the prime means of communication between Scott and his Alpha Roster of X-Men. 0  When Rogue becomes aware that she has an empathic connection to Hope, she contacts Frost for help, Frost finds that the bond is not telepathic in nature. Along with all the other telepaths among the X-Men, Frost is affected by the psionic backlash when Bastion shuts Cerebra down and informs Scott that Ariel has died in a missile strike.  Frost takes part in the battle on the Golden Gate Bridge and watches with concern as Hope manifests the Phoenix Force energy signature. 

After the battle is over, the students have a bonfire to try to relax. As Frost stands around in her diamond state, she sees the Phoenix Force manifest around Hope, prompting her to remember that the Phoenix had told her to "prepare". Horrified, she runs after Scott to tell him about what she saw and what she remembered. Finding him in Cerebra, Scott tells her five new mutants have manifested their powers across the globe. 

"Avengers vs. X-Men"[edit 
In the 2012 storyline "Avengers vs. X-Men", Frost is one of the five X-Men taken over by the power of the Phoenix Force after it is fractured by Iron Man.  Under its influence, she finds and kills a man who committed a hit and run against a mutant over a decade earlier.  During the final showdown against the Avengers and the X-Men, her portion of the Phoenix is violently taken by Cyclops.  Frost is taken into custody by the Avengers and survives an assassination attempt by members of the Purifiers. 

All-New X-Men[edit 
Frost is rescued from prison by Cyclops and Magneto, but it is revealed that her time as a Phoenix has rendered her telepathy erratic at best.  Despite her resentment of Cyclops' recent actions she consents to depart with him to resume his mission to protect mutants.  Frost has trained in secret and obtained full control over her telepathy again. She is the current acting tutor for the Stepford Cuckoos and Jean Grey in the use of their powers.  

Powers and abilities[edit 
Emma Frost is a mutant of enormous telepathic ability,  and is also capable of transforming into an organic diamond state with enhanced strength and durability which suppresses her telepathy. Additionally Frost has been a host to the Phoenix Force and was classified as an Omega-level mutant when she went to shut down the Avengers Academy as one of the Phoenix Five. 

Telepathy[edit 
Frost has been classified as an "Omega-Class telepath",     capable of extraordinary psionic feats, including the telepathic standards of: broadcasting and receiving thoughts, mind-control, altering perceptions and memories, psychic shielding, astral projection, mind switching, brain engram modification, mental sedation, induction of mental pain via touch.   0              0  She is also able to boost or activate a mutant's powers through access of their brain's neurological pathways, and can communicate across global distances unaided.   0              0  Her abilities have been stated to rival that of Charles Xavier himself.   Additionally, she has also been referred to as a "psi of the highest order," been ranked among the five most skilled telepaths on the planet,  has demonstrated the ability to stalemate Exodus, 0  and overcome telepaths, such as Nate Grey,  Kid Omega, and Rachel Summers, through greater power, experience and skill.   0  0 

Diamond form[edit 
At the moment of the destruction of Genosha, Frost manifested a secondary mutation giving her the ability to transform her body into organic diamond.   In this form, Frost is translucent and retains mobility while being nigh invulnerable, and able to support incredible amounts of weight.

Emma's diamond body is virtually tireless as she does not produce fatigue poisons and has no need for water nor food. 0  She is also numbed from emotion, pain and empathy, impervious to cold, 0  and resistant to heat in this form. 0  0   Furthermore, in this form she has no need to breathe.   Despite this high level of invulnerability, her diamond form has a single molecular flaw, which if exploited - such as being shot with a diamond bullet - can cause her body to shatter.  

In this diamond state Frost is unable to access her psychic powers due to suppression by her diamond form's adamantine luster. 2  As a result, Emma is also granted total telepathic immunity while in diamond form. 0    Her diamond form is also stated to emit low-level ultraviolet light, causing it to glow in darkness. 2 

Frost's diamond form also grants her superhuman strength. She has been shown to manhandle Warpath,   and has sent Lady Mastermind flying through a wall with a single punch.  

Innate traits and expertise[edit 
Frost has a gifted intellect with college degrees in multiple fields, including a Bachelor of Science in Education with a minor in Business Administration from the prominent Marvel Universe's Empire State University. A superb businesswoman, Emma Frost for many years was founder and CEO of Frost Enterprises, a major multinational conglomerate headquartered in New York City that rivaled Stark Enterprises and Worthington Industries and specialized in shipping, aerospace engineering and new technology R&D.

Frost is also a highly capable planner, an electronics expert, and can invent machines that grant various psionic abilities, such as "Multivac", a mutant locater capable of monitoring the psionic levels of mutants; the "Hallucinator" used to induce hypnotic hallucinations to brainwash others; the gun-like device that enabled her to exchange minds and powers with Storm; and the Mindtap mechanism which enhanced and enabled her Hellfire cohort Mastermind to project his illusions directly into the mind of the Phoenix.   2       

Frost is well versed in medical disciplines such as neurology, biochemistry, pathophysiology and genetics. This has allowed her to medically cure Polaris from an array of infectious diseases and examine Iceman's brain physiology.   0  Additionally, Frost has also been shown to bootstrap her own brain chemistry to counter a neurotoxin.  

Telekinetic potential[edit 
On occasion, it has been hinted that Frost is also a latent telekinetic. Jean Grey's displaced psyche was able to use Frost's brain to generate a telekinetic force field and fly, while it inhabited the White Queen's body.   During the Onslaught Saga, Frost unwittingly levitated several kitchen utensils while having a bad dream. 2  When the mutant Synch "synched" with Frost's powers, he was able to use them to levitate several objects and individuals in the room. This phenomenon is then referred to as telekinesis and credited to Frost's psi powers.  

Resources and anonymity[edit 
Frost possesses vast wealth as the owner of several multibillion dollar conglomerates; Frost International, Frost Enterprises and Meridian Enterprises.     Additionally, Frost has also made investments in oil companies, Stark Industries, Wakandan Airways, Ben Nishmura's gamma research, Reed Richards' patent for unstable molecules and Cummings Aeronautics helicarrier project.     Furthermore, as CEO Frost International Frost has access to various technologies either designed by herself, 2  or made through acquisitions of corporations such as LaNeige Industries which specialises in trans-dimensional travel and weaponry.  

Frost's wealth and legal resources (Brooke & Webster esq plc)   affords her a degree of anonymity over the digital medium. This has been shown to extend to databases owned by the Avengers,   and the Sentinel Bastion. 0  Furthermore, several injunctions have been in place to prevent any discussion or referencing of Frost or her moniker the "White Queen" on any public networks.  

As a member of the Phoenix 5, Frost at one point telepathically scanned every single superhuman and human mind on the planet digging for the darkest of secrets and information.  

Attire and paraphernalia[edit 
Frost regards her revealing attire as battle armour which may give her a psychological edge against any opponent. 2  Additionally, Frost considers high-heeled footwear as vital to her attire,   and has demonstrated balance and proficiency with them in hand-to-hand combat.   Frost has to maintain a careful balance between her fashion sensibilities and being on the battlefield as this has on one occasion hindered her mobility on mountainous terrain