Wraith (Hector Rendoza) is a fictional character, a mutant in the Marvel Universe. He was created by Scott Lobdell and Salvador Larroca in Uncanny X-Men #392 (2001).
Hector was living in Boston when his mutant powers manifested at the age of sixteen. A large crowd formed on Boston Common, many who knew Hector when he was not translucent, intending to kill him. Jean Grey froze the crowd with her telepathic powers and recruits Hector.[volume & issue needed  He is one of many she gathers to help rescue the X-Men from Genosha, where they are being held by Magneto.[volume & issue needed  He joins with other mutants, such as Northstar, Omertà, Dazzler and Sunpyre.[volume & issue needed  While on the way to Genosha, Hector and Omertà receive a telepathic crash course in the use of their powers. Jean also brings in the entire group to mentally review what had recently occurred with Dazzler.[volume & issue needed 

Jean theorized that had his powers been allowed to evolve, he would have been able to render himself and others completely invisible.[volume & issue needed  He was shown to be depowered.
Wraith can turn either his skin or others' skin translucent.
Invisibility Field: Hector Rendoza's power was to generate a field of invisibility. Unfortunately, when it manifested, the field turned Hector's skin transparent, leaving his muscles, organs and bones showing through. Jean theorized that had his powers been allowed to evolve, he would have been able to render himself and others completely invisible.

Transference: Hector could transfer this field via touch, returning him to normal while disrupting his opponent.
 Wraith, along with Dazzler, Phoenix and
        the other ersatz X-Men boarded the Blackbird and headed for Genosha.
        While the looseknit team bickered, Dazzler told the still star struck
        Hector to leave her alone.
In order to prepare her X-Men for the upcoming battle, Jean
          Grey accessed the minds of Wraith and the other newbies to give them a
          telepathic crash course in the use of their powers. She also linked
          them together to have a training session in a "Danger Room" she
          planned to create on a shared mental landscape
Hector admitted
        to Sunpyre he admired how calm she was in the face of certain danger.
        Moments later, they all found themselves in a mental version of Mojo
        World, based on Dazzler's memories of the realm before she left.
        Panicked by the experience, Hector wanted to leave immediately, but the
        team was ambushed and besieged by tiny versions of Earth-295's
        Apocalypse, Sugar Man, Dark Beast and Holocaust who revealed they had
        already killed Longshot. The scenario ended before Wraith or the others
        could engage them, and a sobbing Dazzler revealed that the villains they
        just saw were the reason she'd come to the X-Men in the first place.
        Mere moments after that, Magneto tore apart the Blackbird and used his
        powers to gently bring everyone to him at the center of Magda Square in
        the capital of Genosha. Surrounded by thousands of his followers, Wraith
        couldn't help but notice how much scarier Magneto looked in real life
        than in the papers. Just then, Magnus presented the dumbstruck team with
        the captured Charles Xavier. Seeing her old mentor chained up and
        crucified angered Dazzler, who attacked Magneto, only to be seemingly
        reduced to a pile of ashes when the master of magnetism retaliated.
Jean Grey and Dazzler actually
        fooled Magneto into believing he had killed the X-Man. In reality,
        Dazzler had used her light powers to create the illusion of her demise,
        while she took the place of Charles Xavier on the cross, who had already
        been freed by his former lover, the Acolyte Amelia Voght. With Xavier
        free to use his mental powers, it was only a matter of time before
        Magneto could be defeated.
Completely unaware of this strategy, the
        new X-Men attacked Magneto who effortlessly beat them back. After
        Omerta, Northstar and Sunpyre failed to slow him down, Hector succeeded,
        much to his own surprise. He caught the villain off guard when he
        transferred his transparency to Magneto, causing the master of magnetism
        to experience a few moments of severe discomfort and disorientation
        before he regained his composure and violently flung Hector away. This
        gave Jean and Xavier enough time to carry out their true plan. Wraith
        looked on as Magneto was disabled and later apparently stabbed to death
        by Wolverine.
In the aftermath, Hector and the others returned with the
        X-Men to the Xavier Institute. Although he was asked to stay on, Rendoza
        opted to leave as soon as possible.
Wraith was one of the victims of
        the Scarlet Witch's reality altering spell that reduced the millions of
        gene active mutants to less than 200 worldwide.
Hector's mutant energies
        became part of the Collective that ended up killing, among others, most
        of the members of the Canadian superhero team Alpha Flight.
Collective's multiple energy signatures and traced them back to Hector
        and 50+ other former mutants who had all lost their powers on M-Day.
Hector's hair color changed from light brown to jet black
        when he transferred his transparency field to another and he returned to
        his fully visible form. While this is obviously a color error, it's very
        well possible that Rendoza's powers extend to the keratin levels in his
        hair roots. This affects the way light bounces off it and alters the way
        others perceive its actual color.
Hector was never called "Wraith" in the actual comics, his
        codename was first revealed in his entry in <span style="font-style: italic;">X-Men:
          Earth's Mutant Heroes#1.